Excuse me, sir. Excuse me, sir. Sir, how did you get rich? How did I get rich? Have you ever had to call a plumber? A plumber. I own one of the biggest plumbing companies in the world. Are you serious? How did Mr. Company make the most amount of money you've made in single year? I sold the company in 2023 for 4.1 billion pounds. So, how much proper money? 4.1 billion pounds. Can I give you a minute? I got all of the world in a million years to help the younger generation. I'm in a hurry, sir. Just for one minute. I can give you five minutes. Is that okay? Absolutely. How come from a lot of money growing up? How I did. My dad was in the civil service. My great grandparents were millionaires in Huddersfield and West Yorkshire. They lost all the money in the Great Depression, 1929. He said, "Don't go into business." I was inspired by Lawrence Vaymus and Distinguished from 1960s. I remember to this day my dad left me only shoulders. I went up to the wall of the big house at the end of the corridor, second Yorkshire, and watched helicopter land. I remember saying, "Dad, I want one of those." He said, "Well, don't be a civil servant like me earning a pittance. You need to run your own business." That's the day I want to be an entrepreneur. Even if I didn't know that word, this is fascinating to me. Because we're talking about plumbing home services here. This is an absolutely sexy business. You built it into a 4 billion pound company. Talk to that young person now that thinks they have to invent the next Google. This is like about 20 something. This really is an sexy business. Yeah, you don't. My advice to any aspiring entrepreneur would be first of all, copy a business model. We taught at school that copying homework is bad in business. I would say copy and improve slightly. Don't reinvent the wheel. Don't reinvent the wheel. Go and buy a copy of entrepreneur magazine. It's got all of the franchise businesses listed. Run through it decide which is the business you want to run. Copy the model, but do yourself. Don't buy a franchise. Hire people to work for you,
To leave with the younger generation, what would that be? I would say if you're thinking about setting up a business today, what's your skill? What do you enjoy doing? Is it sales and marketing? Is it finance? Is it operations? Then go and work for a big company in an industry that you like, and get experience for two or three years. Then go and work for a smaller entrepreneurial company in that same role, whether that's sales and marketing, finance, or operations. After you've got five or six years of experience, go and negotiate with somebody else that might be retiring, and say, "I'll buy your business, but I'll pay you over three or four years out the future profits." So you can buy a business; it's lower risk than setting up from scratch, and you can use their money to acquire it, which is called vendor finance. That's beautiful advice, right there, sir. Thank you so much for your time. Thank you. I connect with all the billionaires I interview. Can I get your contact? Yeah, go.
