The following is a conversation with Terence Tao, widely considered to be one of the greatest mathematicians in history, often referred to as the Mozart of math. He won the Fields Medal and the Breakthrough Prize in mathematics, has contributed groundbreaking work to a truly astonishing range of fields in mathematics and physics. This was a huge honor for me for many reasons, including the humility and kindness that Terence showed me throughout all our interactions. It means the world. This is lectureman podcast supported by generous sponsors in the description or lectureman.com/sponsors. And now, dear friends, here's Terence Tao. What was the first really difficult, research-level math problem that you encountered? One that you posed maybe. Well, I mean, in your undergraduate education, you learn about really hard impossible problems, like the Riemann hypothesis, the twin prime conjecture. You can make problems absolutely difficult, and that's not a real problem. In fact, there's even problems that we know to be unsolvable. What's really interesting are the problems just on the boundary between what we can do easily and what's hopeless. But what are problems where, like, existing techniques can do like 90% of the job, and then you just need that remaining 10%. I think as a PhD student, the curve problem suddenly caught my eye and just got solved. Actually, it's a problem I worked on a lot in my early research. Historically, came from a little puzzle by a Japanese mathematician in the 1918 or so. So the puzzle is that you you have a needle on the plane, or think of like like like driving on on on on a road, something, and you want to execute a U-turn, you want to turn the needle around, but you want to do it in as little space as possible. So you want to use as little area in order to turn it around. So, but the needle is infinitely variable. So you can imagine just spinning it around. It's it's the unit needle. You can spin around the center, and I think they give you a description of how I think possible. All you can do is flip U-turn, which is what we teach people in in the driving schools to do, and that takes area about eight. So it's a little more efficient than a rotation, and so for a while people thought that was the most efficient way to turn the around, but but Kowalczyk showed that in fact
And so it's possible to do that. And geometrically, what's going on is that t here is always light rays. So, like if if this wave represents light, for example, you can imagine this wave as superposition of photons all traveling at speed of light, and they all travel on these light rays, and they all focus at this one point. So you can very dispersed wave focus into a concentrated wave at one point in space and time, but then it focuses again and it separates. But potentially, if the conjecture is negative solution, so what that means that t here is a very efficient way to pack two points with different actions to a very, very narrowness of of very narrow volume. Then you would also be able to create waves that start out some there will be some arrangement of waves start out very, very dispersed, but they would concentrate not just at a single point, but there will be a large there will be a lot of concentration in space and time. And and you could create what's called a blow up, where these waves they actually become so great that the laws of physics that are governed by are no longer wave equations, but something more complicated and nonlinear. And so in mathematical physics, we care a lot about whether certain equations in in wave equations stable or not, whether they can create these singularities. T here is a famous unsolved problem called the Navier Stokes regularity problem. So the Navier Stokes equations, equations that govern fluid flow, incompressible fluids like water. The question asks if you start with a smooth, velocity fluid water, can it ever concentrate so much that the blow up will happen at some point? That's called a singularity. We don't see that in life, you know, if you splash around water and a bathtub, the water doesn't blow up, or or have a water leaving a speed of light. But potentially, it is possible. And in recent years, the the consensus has has drifted towards the the belief that in fact, for certain very special initial conditions of of the water, that singularity can form, but people have not yet been able to to actually establish this. The Clay Foundation has these seven million prize problems, has a million other prize for solving one of the problems. This is one of them. Of these seven, only one of them has been solved at the Clay Conjecture problem. So the Clay Conjecture is not directly related to the Navier Stokes problem, but understanding it would
Unlikely, but mathematically possible. It can happen, and we can't rule it out. And this is a situation that shows a lot in mathematics. A basic example is the digits of pi. Through one, four, one, pi, and so forth, the digits look like they have no pattern, and we believe they have no pattern. On the long term, you see as many ones, and twos, and threes, and fours, and fives, and sixes. There should be no preference in the digits of pi, if either it's seven or eight. But maybe there is some demon in the digits of pi that, like every time, you can be more digits. So pi is one digit to another, and this is a conspiracy that should not happen. There is no reason it should happen, but there's there's no way to prove it with current technology. Okay, so getting back to Navier Stokes, a fluid has a certain energy, and because if fluids in motion, the energy gets transported around. And water is also viscous, so if the energy is spread out over many locations, the natural viscosity of the fluid would just damp out the energy, and it will go to zero. And this is what happens in when we actually experiment with water. There's some turbulence and waves of water, but eventually it settles down, and and and the lower the amplitude, the smaller velocity, the more calm it gets. But potentially, there is some sort of demon that keeps pushing the the energy of the fluid into a smaller and smaller scale, and move faster and faster, and at faster speeds, the viscosity is relatively less, and so it could happen that that it could just some sort of um um what's called a self similar blow up scenario where you know the energy of the fluid starts out at some large scale, and then it all sort of transfers the energy into a smaller region of of the fluid, which then at a much faster rate moves into an even smaller region, and so forth. And and each time it does this, it takes maybe half as as long as as the previous one, and then you you you could actually convert to all the energy concentrating one point in a finite amount of time. Um, and that that's a scenario called finite time blow up. So in practice, this doesn't happen. So water is what's called turbulent. So it is true that if you have a big eddy of water, it would tend to break
Technique that is going to work and applying it, but you need to not take the technique that don't work. And for problems that are really hard, often there are dozens of ways that you might think might apply to solve the problem, but it's only after a lot of experience that you realize there is no way that these methods are going to work. So having these counterexamples for new problems kind of rules out. It saves you a lot of time because you you you are not wasting energy on things that you now know cannot possibly ever work. How do you connect is it that specific problem fluid dynamics, or just some more general intuition you build up about mathematics? Right, yeah. So the key phenomenon that my technique exploits is what's called supercriticality. So in partial differential equations, often these equations are like tug of war between different forces. So in Navier Stokes, there is the dissipation force coming from viscosity, and it's very interesting. It's linear. It comes things down. If if viscosity is all there was, then then nothing bad would ever happen. But there is also transport that that energy from one location of space can get transported because of fluid motion to other locations, and that's the nonlinear effect, and that causes all the problems. So there are these two competing terms in the Navier Stokes equation: the dissipation term and the transport term. If the dissipation term dominates, if it's large, then basically you get regularity. And if if the transport term dominates, then then we don't know what's going on. It's a very nonlinear situation; it's unpredictable. It's turbulent. So sometimes these forces are balanced at small scales, but not in balance at large scales or or vice versa. So Navier Stokes is what's called supercritical. So at smaller and smaller scales, the transport terms are much stronger than the viscosity terms. So the viscosity is things that come things down, and so this is this is why the problem is hard in two dimensions. So the Soviet mathematician, mathematician Kaya, in the sixties showed in two dimensions there is no blow up, and in two dimensions the Navier Stokes equation is what's called critical. If the transport and the effect of viscosity are both the same, even at very very small scales, and we have a lot of technology to handle critical and also supercritical equations and regularity, but for supercritical equations, there was not clear what's going on. And I did a
What happens is that the energy starts getting spread out into many many scales at once. So you have energy at one scale, you push it into the next scale, and then as soon as it enters that scale, you also push to the next scale, but there is still some energy left over from the previous scale. You kind of do everything at once, and this spreads out the energy too much, and then it turns out that that is makes it vulnerable for viscosity to come in and actually damp out everything. So, so turns out this direct approach doesn't doesn't work. It was a separate paper by someone that shows that you should this in three dimensions. So what I needed was to program the lay, so kind of like a lock. So I needed an equation which would start with a fluid doing something at one scale, it would push the energy into the next scale, but it would stay there until all the energy from the from the largest scale got transferred, and only after you push all the energy in, then you open the next gate, and and then you you push that in as well. So by doing that, it kind of the energy inches forward scale by scale, in such a way that it's always localized at one scale at a time, and then it can resist the effects of viscosity because it's not dispersed. So in order to make that happen, yeah, I had to construct rather complicated machinery, and it was basically like you know it was kind of like a little kind of circuit. So I I thank my wife for this because she was trained as an electrical engineer, and you know she talked about you know she had to design circuits and so forth. And you know if you if you want to sort of do something like maybe have a light that flashes on and then turns off and on and off, you can build it from from more primitive components like resistors and so forth, and you have to build a diagram, and you and these diagrams you can you can sort of follow the eyeballs and say, oh yeah, the the current will build up here and will stop and it will do that. So I knew how to build analog of basic electronic components like resistors and capacitors and so forth, and I would I would stack them together in in such a way that I would create something that would open one gate, and then the relay clock, and then once the clock hits a certain threshold, it would close it. It would kind of rule a little machine, but describe
Because there's always errors, you have to you have to do a lot of correction along the way. I don't know how to completely power down the big machine, so it doesn't interfere with the the running of the smaller machine. But everything in principle can happen. Like it doesn't contradict any of the laws of physics, so it's sort of evidence that this is possible. There are other groups who are now pursuing ways to make never explore which are nowhere near as ridiculously complicated as this. They they actually are pursuing much closer to the the self similar model, which can it it doesn't quite work as this, but there could be some simpler scheme that one just describe to make this work. There is a really of genius here to go from never strokes to this Turing machine. So it goes from what the self similar blobs in there, where they try to get the smaller and smaller blob to now having a liquid Turing machine, just smaller and smaller and smaller, and somehow seeing how that can be used to say something about a blow up. I mean, that's a big leap. So there's precedent. I mean, so the the thing about mathematics is that it's really good at spotting connections between what you think what you might think was completely different problems. But if if the mathematical form is the same, you can you can you can draw a connection. So there's a lot of people still on more cellular automata. The most famous one is Conway's Game of Life. This is infinite discrete, and any given time, the grid is occupied by a cell or empty. And there's a very simple rule that tells you how these cells evolve. So sometimes cells live, sometimes they die. And this you know when I was a student, I was very popular screen saver. You just have these these animations going, and they look very chaotic. In fact, they look a little bit like turbulent flows. But at some point, people discover more and more interesting structures within the Game of Life. So for example, they discover something called gliders. So gliders are very tiny configuration of like four or five cells, which evolves and just moves in a certain direction, and that's like this these vortex rings. And so there's an analogy. They give a lot of this kind of discrete equation, and and the never strokes is a continuous equation, but mathematically they have some similarities. And so over time, people discover more and more interesting things you could build within the Game of Life.
Basically, through engineering, you know by by by specially designing things in a very special way, you can pick constructions. And one of the possible to prove the sort of the negative of like basically prove that only through engineering can you ever yeah yeah yeah something interesting. This this is a current challenge in mathematics that I call the the arbitrary construction randomness that most obviously can generate in mathematics random things like like the digits of pi. Well, we believe is an example, but there's a very small number of things that have patterns. But now you can prove there's a pattern by just construction. You know, if something has a simple pattern, you have to prove that it does something repeat itself three. So often you can do that, but and you can prove that that for example you can you can prove that most sequences of digits have no pattern. So like if you just pick digits randomly, there's some sort of lowly numbers till two, you can get as many ones as twos, and so on. But we have a lot of tools to to if I give you a specific pattern like the digits of pi, how can I show that this doesn't have some weird pattern to? Some other way that I spend a lot of time on is to prove construction theorems, inverse theorems, that give tests for when something is very structured. So some functions are called additive, like if a function maps natural numbers to natural numbers, so maybe you know two up to four, three up to six, and so forth. Some functions are called additive, which means if you add, if you add two inputs together, the output gets added as well. For example, multiply by constant, if you multiply by ten, if you if if you multiply a plus b by ten, that's the same as multiplying a by ten and b by ten and adding together. So some functions additive, some things are kind of additive, but not completely additive. So for example, if I take a number and I multiply this by two, and I take the integer part of that, so ten I square two is fourteen. Point something so ten multiplied fourteen, twenty multiplied twenty eight. So in that case, additive is true then. So ten plus ten is twenty, fourteen plus twenty is twenty eight. But because of this rounding, sometimes there's rounding errors, and sometimes when you add a plus b, this function doesn't quite give the sum of the two individual outputs, but the sum plus minus one. So it
Okay, but you need, but you need an extremely long random sequence for this to happen. I suppose that's intuitive. It's just infinity, yeah, infinity. After all the students, yeah. How we supposed to deal with infinity? Well, you can think of infinity as as an abstraction of a finite number for which you do not have a bound for. Um, that, you know, I mean, so nothing in real life is truly infinite. Um, but you know, you can, um, you know, you can ask yourself questions like, what if I had as much money as I wanted? You know, or what if I could go as fast as I wanted? And a way in which mathematicians formalize is mathematics found a formalism to idealize instead of something being extremely large or extremely small actually being exactly infinite or zero. And often the the mathematics becomes a lot cleaner when you do that. I mean, in physics, we joke about the seeming spherical cows. You know, like we all problems have got all kinds of real effects, but you can idealize certain things to infinities and something to zero, and and the mathematics becomes a lot simpler. To a wonder how often using infinity forces us to deviate from the physics of reality. Yes, so there's a lot of pitfalls. So you know, we we spend a lot of time, you know, undergraduate courses teaching analysis, um, and analysis. It's often how do you take limits and and and whether you know, so for example, a plus b is always b plus a. Um, so when you have a finite number of terms, you add them, you can swap them, and there's no problem. But when you have infinite number of terms, these little show games can play. Where you can have series which converge to one value, but you rearrange it and it suddenly converges to another value, and so you can make mistakes. You have to know what you're doing when you allow infinity. You have to introduce epsilons and deltas, and and this this type of way of reasoning that helps you avoid mistakes. In more recent years, people have started taking results that are true in infinite limits and and or finalizing them. So you know something's true eventually, but you don't know when. Now, give me a wait. Okay, so so if I have an infinite number of monkeys, but a large finite number of monkeys, how long do I have to wait
Find the path to get there. A lot, there's a lot of speculation about suppose that this will happen. You know, planning and and modeling, speculation is is one of the things. But that's about it, actually. Most of things we do in life is conclusions, including physics and science. I mean, they want to know, you know, where is the asteroid going to go? You know, what is the weather going to be tomorrow? But mathematics also has another direction of of going from the the actions. What do you think? There's this tension. There's between theory and experiment. What do you think is the more powerful way of discovering truly novel ideas about reality? Well, you need both top down and bottom up. Yes, it's it's really an interaction of these things. So over time, the observations and the theory and the modeling should both get close to reality. But initially, and it's I mean, this is this always the case. It's always far apart to begin with. But you need one to figure out where to push the other. You know, so if your model is predicting anomalies that are not picked by experiment, that forces experimenters to look, you know, to to to to to find more data to refine the models. You know, so it it goes it goes back and forth. Within mathematics, there's there's also a theory and experimental component. It's just that until very recently, theory has dominated almost completely. 99% of mathematics is theoretical mathematics, and there's a very tiny amount of experimental mathematics. People do do it. You know, like if they want to study prime numbers or whatever, they can generate large datasets and so. Once we had computers, we began to do a little bit. Although even before, well, like Gauss for example, he discovered he conjectured the most basic theorem in number theory, the prime number theorem, which predicts how many primes up to a million up to a trillion. It's not obvious question, and basically what he did was he computed. I mean, mostly by himself, but also higher human computers, people who professional job was to do arithmetic, to compute the first hundred thousand primes or something, and tables and prediction. Another example of experimental mathematics, but until very recently, it was not. I mean, theoretical mathematics was just much more successful. I mean, doing computational computations is was just not not feasible until very recently, and even nowadays, you know, even
Observations and our models, and technically they are distinct, and I think they will always be distinct. But they can get closer over time, you know. So, and the process of getting closer often means that you you have to discard your initial assumptions. So, astronomy for quite an example, you know, like like your initial model of the world that is flat because it looks flat, you know, and and it's and it's big, you know, and the universe sky is not, you know, like the sun looks. Sun looks really tiny, and so you start off with a model which is really far from reality. But it fits kind of the observations that you have, you know. So, so things look good, you know. But over time, as you make more observations, bring it closer to to reality, the model gets ever more weird, you know. And so, over time, we realize that the Earth is round, that it spins, it goes around the solar system, goes around the galaxies, and so on, so forth, and they talk about the universe expanding, expanding, expanding. And very recently, this year, there's even the acceleration of the universe itself is this evidence that this is not constant. And the explanation behind why that is, it is catching up. It's catching up. I mean, so you know, the dark matter, dark energy, yes, we have we have a model that sort of explains that fits it really well. It just has a few parameters that you have to specify. But so people say, "Well, if you have this, you know, with enough sophistication, you can explain anything." Yeah, but my point with the model is that you want to have fewer parameters in your model than data points in your observation set. So, if a model with ten parameters explains ten observations, that is a completely useless model. It's just overfitted. But if you have a model with, you know, two parameters that explains a trillion observations, which is basically so, yeah, the the standard model I think has like fourteen parameters, and it explains about a billion data that that that astronomers have. You can think of all theory, like one way to think about physical matter, goes through it's compression of the universe and data compression. So, you know, you have these petabytes of observations. You like to compress it to a model which you can describe in five pages and specify a certain number of parameters, and
The global financial crisis was a famous example of this. People thought that mortgage defaults had this Gaussian behavior that if you if you ask if a population of of you know one hundred thousand Americans with mortgages, what what proportion would default on mortgages? If everything was decorrelated, you'd be able to curve, and you can you can manage risk options, derivatives, and so forth. And and it's very beautiful theory, but if there was a systemic shock in the economy that can push everybody to default, same time that's very non Gaussian behavior, and this wasn't fully accounted for. Now I think there is some awareness that this systemic risk is a much bigger issue, and just because the model is pretty nice, it may not be mathematically so. So, the mathematics of what what models do is really important, but also the science of validating when the models fit reality and don't. I mean, that you need both, and but mathematics can help because it can it can for some of these simplifying things. It tells you that if you have certain axioms like like non correlation, that if all the inputs are correlated with each other, then yeah, the Gaussian behavior is fine. It tells you where to look for weaknesses in the model. So, if you have mathematical understanding of simplifying things, and someone proposes use these Gaussian copulas whatever to model default risk, if you mathematically trained you would say, "Okay, what is this systemic correlation between all these inputs?" And so, and you can ask economists, you know, how how how much risk is that? And then you can you can go look at that. So t here is always this this synergy between science and mathematics. A little bit on the topic of universality. You are known and celebrated for working across and incredible breadth of mathematics from the field of Hilbert century ago, the great Fields Medal-winning mathematician Gauss said that you are the closest thing we get to Hilbert. Is it called yours? But anyway, so you are known for this ability to go both deep and broad in mathematics. So you are the perfect person to ask. Do you think there are threads that connect all the disparate areas of mathematics? Is there kind of deep underlying structure to all mathematics? There is certainly a lot of connecting threads, and a lot of the progress of mathematics has can be represented by taking by stories of two fields of mathematics that were previously not connected and finding connections. An ancient example is geometry number theory. So, in
Much faster and and more efficient, but I can I can give them these tools. I mean, you said that you can be both the hedgehog and the fox, the pairing of the contacts, the pairing of the collaborations. What can you, if it's all possible, be to the difference between those two ways of thinking about problems? Say, you're encountering a problem, you know, searching for the connections versus like very singular focus. I'm much more comfortable with the the the fox pattern, yes. So, yeah, I like looking for analogies, narratives. I I spend a lot of time if there's a result I see in one field, and I like the result, the result, but I don't like the proof. I use mathematics that I'm not super familiar with. I often try to reprove myself using the tools that I favor. Often prove worse, but by the exercise doing so, I can see now I can see what other proof was trying to do, and from that I can get some understanding of all the tools that were used in in that field. So it's very exploratory, very doing crazy things, crazy people, and like reinventing the wheel a lot. Whereas the hedgehog style is much more scholarly, you know, you you very knowledge based, you you you you see up to speed on like all the developments in the field, you know, the history, you have a very good understanding of exactly the strengths and weaknesses of each of the technique. Yeah, I think you you rely a lot more on sort of calculation than sort of trying to find narratives. So yeah, I mean, I can do that too, but the other way, extreme, let's step back and maybe look at the the a bit of Roman mathematics. So I think you said that early on in your life, math was more like a puzzle solving activity when you were young. When did you first encounter a problem or proof where you realized math can have kind of elegance and beauty to it? Good question. When I kind of graduated in Princeton, so John Conway was at the time. We passed away a few years, but I remember one of the very first research talks I went to was a talk by Conway on what he called extreme proof. So Conway just had this amazing way of thinking about all kinds of things in a way that you would never think of. He thought a proof solves, I occupy some sort of space. You know, so so if you want to
So the simplicity called the code golf. Oh yeah, yeah, yeah. Which I also find beautiful and fun. How people use different programming languages to try to write the shortest possible program that accomplishes a particular task. Yeah. Then I believe there is even competitions. Yeah. Yeah. And it's also a nice way to stress not just the sort of the programs or in this case the proofs, but also the different languages. Maybe that's a different notation or whatever to use to accomplish a task. Yeah. You learn a lot. I mean, it may seem like a frivolous exercise, but it can generate all these insights, which if you didn't have this artificial objective to pursue, you might not see. What to use the most beautiful or elegant equation in mathematics? I mean, one of the things that people often look to in beauty is simplicity. So e equals e squared. So when a few concepts come together, that's why the Euler identity is often considered the most beautiful equation in mathematics. Do you find beauty now in Euler? Yeah. Well, as I said, I mean, what I find most appealing is connections between different things. So the e pi equals minus one. So yeah, people always use all the fundamental constants together. That that's, I mean, that's cute. But to me, so the exponential function was just all the to measure exponential growth, so compounding or decay, anything which continuously growing, continuously decreasing, growth and decay, or dilation or contraction is modeled by exponential function. Well, pi comes from circle rotation. If you want to rotate and you don't know, and degrees, you need to rotate by pi radians, and i complex numbers represents topography, one-dimensional axes, so magnitude, rotation, so a change in direction. So the exponential function represents growth and decay in the direction where you are. When you stick i in the exponential, now it's it's a motion in the same direction as your composition is motion as a rectangle to composition, so rotation. And then so e pi equals minus one tells you that if you rotate for time pi, you end up at the other direction. So it unifies geometry through dilation and exponential growth dynamics. Through the act of computation, rotation by pi, so it connects together all these two mathematics. Yeah, that makes geometry complex and complex and the complex numbers the most almost the most fundamental in mathematics because of the the the thing that you mentioned is the the the collision of notations from these different
Secretly behind the scenes in classical mechanics, also is the key object in quantum mechanics that is also an operator Hamiltonian. It's a different type of object; it's also an operator than a function. But and but again, once you specify, you specify the dynamics, so this is called Schrödinger's equation. Tells you exactly how quantum systems evolve. Once you have the Hamiltonian, so side by side they look completely different objects. So one involves particles, one involves waves, and so forth. But with this centrality, you could start actually transferring a lot of intuition and facts from classical mechanics to quantum mechanics. So, for example, in classical mechanics, there is symmetrical symmetry in physical system; there is conservation law. So the laws of physics are translation invariant. Like if I move things to the left, it's the same laws of physics as it was here, and that corresponds to conservation momentum. If I turn around by by some angle again, it's still the same laws of physics. This corresponds to conservation angular momentum. If I wait for ten minutes, it's still the same laws of physics. So this translation invariant is called the law of conservation energy. So t here is a fundamental connection between symmetry and conservation, and that's also true in quantum mechanics, even though the equations are completely different. But because they're both coming from Hamiltonian, Hamiltonian rules everything. Every time Hamiltonian is symmetry, the equations will have conservation law. So it's it's it's it's once you have the right language, it actually makes a lot a lot clearer. One of the most very kind unifying quantum mechanics and general relativity. We haven't figured out what the fundamental objects are. Like, for example, we have to give up the notion of space and time being these almost equally abstract spaces, and have to be, you know, and you know, we can know that at very tiny scales, the quantum fluctuations of space, space time form, and trying to use Cartesian coordinates x, y, z, it's it's it's it's a non starter. But we don't know how to what to replace it with. We don't have mathematical we concepts the analog of Hamiltonian, so all kinds of everything. Does it go to say that there is a theory of everything? So this is even possible to unify the finest language, the unifying general relativity and quantum mechanics. I believe so. I mean, the history of physics being that
Yeah, we're just—it's very hard to use a limited extent of cognition to intuit what that reality really is like. This is why analogies are so important, you know. I mean, so yeah, the round Earth is not intuitive because we're stuck on it, but you know, you know, round objects in general we have pretty good intuition, and we intuit light waves and so forth. And I get second good exercise to work out how eclipses and phases of the sun and the moon and so forth can be really easily explained by by by by round Earth and you know and models and and you can just take you know a blackboard and a golf ball and and and light sources and actually do this yourself. So the intuition is there, but you have to transfer it. There is a big leap to actually go from flat to round Earth because you know our life is mostly in flatland. Yeah, to load that information, we're all taking from ground, we take so many things from ground because science is established a lot of things for this kind of thing, but you know, we're on a rock. Yeah, well, in space, yeah, yeah, it's a big leap, and you have to take a chain of those leaps. The more and more and more we progress, right? Yeah, so modern science is maybe a kind of a total success. It's that in order to be more accurate, has to move further and further away from intuition, and so for someone who hasn't gone through the whole process of science education, looks almost suspicious. Yeah, because of that, so you know, we we need we need more grounding. I mean, I think I mean, there are there are scientists who do outreach, but this this this this lots of science things that you can do at home. This lots of YouTube videos. I did YouTube videos on Galileo and we talked about the you know how the ancient Greeks were able to measure things like the distance to the moon and the Earth, and you know, using techniques that you could also replicate yourself. It doesn't all have to be like fancy space telescopes and really intimidating maths. Yeah, so I highly recommend that really a lecture on your so incredible video with it's a beautiful experience to try to put yourself in the mind of a person from that time, shrouded in mystery. You know, you're like on the planet. You don't know the shape of it, the size of it. You
Some techniques to solve that problem. So part of it was this problem is really nonlinear because of the curvature of the sphere. There was a certain nonlinear effect which was nonperturbative. It was when you sort of looked at it normally, it's larger than the linear effects of the wave equation, and so it was hard to to keep things under control, even when the issue was small. But I developed a quadratic transformation, so the equation is kind of like evolution of of sheets of wheat, and they all bending back and forth, and so there was a lot of motion. But if you imagine like stabilizing the flow by attaching the cameras at different points in space, which are trying to move in a way that captures most of the motion, and the the so stabilizes flow, the flow becomes a lot more linear. I discovered a way to transform the equation to reduce the amount of nonlinear effects, and then I was able to to solve the equation. I found the transformation while visiting my aunt in Australia, and I tried and tried and I made so many failures, and I I couldn't do it on paper, and I had not enough supercomputers to do any computer simulations, so I ended up closing my eyes, being on the floor, and just imagining myself to be this figure and rolling around to try to to see how to change coordinates in such a way that some of the things in the equations would behave in a reasonably linear fashion. And yeah, my aunt walked into me while I was doing that, and she was asking me, "Well, why am I doing doing this? " It's complicated. Yeah, yeah, and if I know you are a young man, I don't ask questions. I I have to ask the the you know how do you approach solving difficult problems? What if it's possible to go inside your mind when you are thinking? Are you visualizing in your mind the mathematical objects and what may be? What are you visualizing in your mind usually when you are thinking? A lot of pen and paper. One thing you pick up as mathematician is I call it cheating strategically. So the the beauty of mathematics is that you get to change the change the problem, change the rules as you wish. Because you don't get to this or any other field. Like you know, if you engineer and someone just build a bridge, or there is a river, you can't say, "I want to build this bridge over here instead, " or "I
Explanations. Let's talk about a little bit of code. So maybe a good entry point is just talking about computers as a proof in general. Can you describe the Lean formal proof programming language? How can how as a proof assistant maybe how you start using it and how it has helped you? So Lean is a computer language much like sort of standard languages like Python and C and so forth. Except in most languages, the focus is on producing executable code, lines of code do things—you know, they flip bits or they make a move or or they deliver you text on something. So Lean is a language that can also do that. It can also be run as a standard traditional language, but it can also produce certificates. So, for example, like Python, like do a computation and give you the answer seven. Okay, it does the sum of four plus four is seven. But Lean can produce not just the answer, but but a proof that how got the the answer seven as four plus four, and all the steps involved in in in so it's it creates more complicated objects, not just statements, but statements are proofs attached to them. And every line of code is a way of producing the previous statement to to create new ones. So it isn't new. This is a proof assistant, and so they provide languages which you can create quite complicated intricate mathematical proofs, and they produce certificates that give a 100% guarantee that you are doing it correct if you trust the compiler of Lean, but they make the compiler really small, and you can assemble the compiler available for people to for giving people some intuition about the the difference between writing on paper versus using Lean programming language. How hard is it to formalize a statement? So Lean, a lot of mathematicians were involved in the design of Lean. So it's it's designed so individual lines of code, for example, individual lines of argument. Like you might want to introduce a variable, want to want to prove a computation. You you there are various standard things that you can do, and and it's it's written so ideally for like one to one correspondence. In fact, it isn't because Lean is like splitting a proof to extremely pedantically who will point out okay, did you read this? Like what what happens if this is zero? Okay, um, did you how do you justify this? So Lean has a lot of automation in it to try to to to be less annoying. So, for example, every mathematical
But people beginning to use it a little bit on top. Most the level basically fancy old complete that you can type half of one line of proof and find. Yeah, but fancy is pretty fancy. Sort of capital letter of the remove some of the friction. Yeah, the mathematician might feel when they move from pen and paper to formalizing. Yes, yeah. So right now I estimate that the effort time and effort taken to formalize a proof is about ten times the amount taken to do it. Yes, it's doable, but you don't. It's annoying. But is it like kill all viable of the mathematician? Yeah. So I mean, I think it's a good work. Right? Yeah. If if that was the only aspect of it, okay, but okay, there's some there's some cases where you more pleasant to do the formally. So there's there's a theorem formalized and there's certain constants twelve that that in the fancy and so this twelve had to be carried all through the proof, and like everything had to be checked that all the all all other numbers had to be consistent with twelve, and so we were paper through the theorem with twelve, and then a few weeks later, so we said, oh, we can't improve this to eleven by rewriting some of the steps. And when this happens with pen and paper, um, every time you change a parameter, you have to check line by line that every single line of your proof still works. And there can be subtle things that you didn't quite realize. Some problems in number twelve that you didn't even realize that you were taking into account. So a proof can break down at a subtle place. So we had formalized the proof for this constant twelve, and then when this new paper came out, we said, oh, let's let's take two weeks to formalize and like twenty people to formalize this original proof. So now now let's let's update the twelve to eleven, and what you can do, Lean, is that you just you have to find the moment you change twelve to eleven, you run the compiler, and like thousands of lines of code have ninety percent of them still work, and it's a couple of lines in red now. I can justify these steps, but immediately which steps you change, but you skip over everything which which works just fine. And if your program thing is correctly with good programming practices, most of your lines will not be red, and
Something, or are you brains? Are you focusing on particular part, and you are brainstorming? There is always a brainstorming process first. Yes, mathematical projects by their nature, when you start, you don't really know how to do the problem. It's not like an engineering project where some other theory has been established decades, and it's implementation is the main difficulty. You have to figure out even what is the path. So this was about about choosing first. It's like um, it goes back to the bridging analogy. First, assume you have an object, and and like I mentioned, of of what force is involved. Now, can you can you build this bridge? Okay, now have implemented only five force. Now can you do this? Um, so I mean, of course, no no engineer can actually do this because they have fixed requirements. Yes, there is this sort of jam sessions all at the beginning where you try all kinds of crazy things, and you you make all these assumptions that are realistic, but you plan to fix later. And you try to see if this even some skeleton of the problem might work. And then hopefully, that breaks the problem into smaller subproblems, which you don't know how to do, but then you you focus on on some ones, and sometimes different collaborators are better at working on certain things. So one of my themes I am known for is the theorem proving, which now called the Greenhouse theorem, the statement that the primes contain certain progression of length. So it was a modification of the theorem was already, and the way we collaborated was that Ben had already proved a similar result for progressions of length three. He showed that just like the primes contain certain progressions of length three, even and even subsets of primes, certain subsets do, but his technique is only worked for for that few progressions, didn't work for longer progressions. But I had these techniques coming from a different theorem, which something that I had been playing with and and you better than Ben at the time, and so if I could just find certain random properties of certain sets of the primes, maybe there is a certain technical condition which if I could have it, if Ben could apply me to this fact, I could I could prove it. But I what I asked was a really difficult question, and Ben said, "Which he said there is no way we can prove this. Can you can you prove your part of the theorem using a weaker hypothesis that
Do any mathematical exploration of some mathematical pattern or something? You need some code to write a pattern, and sometimes there's some computer algebra package that helps, but often it's just one mathematician coding lots and lots of Python or whatever. And because coding is such an error-prone activity, it's not practical to allow other people to collaborate with you on writing modules for your code. Because if one of the modules has a bug in it, the whole thing is unreliable. So it's these. So you get this spook spaghetti code written by non-professional programmers, mathematicians, and they're clunky and and slow. And so, because that it's it's hard to to really mass produce experiments. But yeah, but I think with the I'm already starting some projects where we are not just experimenting with data, but experimenting with proofs. So, I have this project called the Equation with Proof Project. Basically, we generated about twenty two million little problems in abstract algebra, and we should back up and tell you what the project is. So, abstract algebra studies operations like multiplication and addition, and the abstract properties. So, multiplication, for example, is commutative: x times y is always y times x, is for numbers, and it's also associative: x times y times z is the same as x times y times z. So, these operations obey some laws, and the the the the the don't obey others. Because x times x is not always equal to x, so that law is not always true. So, given any any operation, it obeys some laws and others. And so, we generated four thousand possible laws of algebraic operations. And the question is, which laws imply each other ones? So, for example, does commutativity imply associativity? And yes, no, because there's that you can describe an operation which obeys the commutative law, but doesn't obey the associative law. So, by producing an example, you can you can show that commutativity does not imply associativity. But some other laws do imply the laws by substitution and so forth, and you can write down some algebraic proofs. So, we looked at all the pairs between these four thousand laws and these twenty two million pairs. And for each pair, we asked, "Does this law imply this law? " If so, give give give a proof. If not, give an example. So, twenty two million problems, each one of which you
Like this is a metric, while flawed, is is going in the more in the right direction, right? Yeah, it's interesting. At least it's a very interesting metric. Yeah, I think it's interesting. The study. I think you can you can study of whether this project, this, this is probably good hard work. So just because you used to in some device before, it becomes game, and then it's no longer useful. Oh, humans! Yeah, yeah. I mean, it's very interesting. So what we've done for this project is is so far so there are at least standard categories from the sciences of what contributions people give. So this concept and validation and resources and and coding and so forth. So we we we the standard list of all so categories, and we just ask each contributor to this big matrix of all the all the authors and all the categories, just tick the boxes with the thing that they contributed, and just give a rough idea, you know, like oh, so you did coding, and and and you provided some computer data to do independent verification or whatever. And I think that that works out. Traditionally, mathematicians just order alphabetically, right? So we don't have this tradition as in the sciences of lead author and second author and so forth, which we're proud of. We make all the authors equal status, but it doesn't quite scale to this size. So a decade ago, I was involved in this purely math project. It was the crowdsourcing mathematics, but without the lean component, so it was limited by you need to human verify, check that all the contributions coming in were accurate, and this was a huge bottleneck actually. But still, we had project with you know ten authors, also, but we decided at the time not to try to decide who did what, but to have a single student. So we created this fictional category called D J PolyMath, and this put a ball by key words, this student from a famous group of mathematicians in the twentieth century, but and so the people all the students so none of us got the credit. This actually turned out to be not so great for a couple of reasons. So, so one is that if you actually wanted to be considered ten-year author, you could not use this paper in your as just a as a publication because it wasn't in the formal author credit. But the other thing that we found much later is that people referred to the project. They
There are trained model. Something came to zero that they used to go to try to improve the other model. I believe it's a separate model for geometry problems. So what impresses you about this, and what do you think is the gap? Yeah, we talked earlier about things that are amazing over time becoming normalized. So now, somehow, of course, geometry is a solvable problem, right? That's true. That's true. It's still beautiful. Yeah, yeah, no, it's it's a great work. It's still possible. I mean, it's it's they're just not scalable. Yeah, three days of Google servers, server time to solve one high school math problem. This is not a scalable prospect, especially with exponential increase and as the complexity increases, which means they get a solvable performance. The equivalent of I mean, equivalent of I mean, so first of all, they took way more time than was allotted, and they had the systems where the humans started helped by formalizing, but also they were given those forms for the solution, which I guess is formally verified. So I guess that's fair. Yeah, there are there will be proposals at some point to actually have an AI mathematician where, at the same time as the human can just get the the actual problems, it also be given the same problems, the same time period, and the outputs would be graded by the same judges, and which means it would be written in natural language rather than formal language. I hope that happens. I hope this happens. I hope it won't happen. This I know the performance is not good enough in the time period, and but there are smaller competitions, the competitions where the the answer is is a number rather than a long form proof, and that's that's AI is actually a lot better at problems where there's a specific numerical answer, because it's it's easy to to to to reinforce reinforcement learning. Yeah, you got the right answer, you got the wrong answer. It it's very clear signal, but a long form proof either has to be formal, and the machine can give it thumbs up thumbs down, or informal. But then you need a human to grade it to tell. And if you try to do billions of reinforcement learning, you know, you're not high enough humans to to grade those. Maybe it's a very hard task for the last thing we want to do reinforcement learning on just the regular text that people get. But
We've had human-generated batches of low quality, like you know, submissions where we don't have the formal training support. But the human produces bad; you can tell it's bad pretty quickly. It makes really basic mistakes. But the AI generator, they can look superficially flawless, and it's partly because that's what the reinforcement learning has trained them to do—to to make them to produce text that looks like what is correct. For many applications, is good enough. So it was often really subtle, and then when you spot them, they really do it, like you know, like no human would have made that mistake. Yeah, especially with fresh training in the programming context, because I program a lot. Yeah, when humans when low quality code, there is something called the smell. You tell, you tell. Maybe like there is, but when when they generate code of this, and then you write, eventually you find an obvious dumb thing that just looks, yeah, like good code. Yeah, so it's very tricky. And fresh training for some reason. Yeah, so yes, the sense of smell. Yes, this is this is one thing humans have, and this metaphorical smell that this is not clear how to get the answer to. Eventually, I mean, so the way I was trying to make the program go and test and so forth is, is sometimes they have developed a sense of smell for go and test positions. That this position is good for white, but good for black. They can't initially why, but just having that that sense of smell that's the prize. So if AI's gained that ability to sort of sense viability of certain strategies, says, "So I am going to try to break up this problem into smaller tasks, and they can say, 'This looks good.' This task looks like this little task, then then your main task, and this would be good chance being true. This is good to try. Or no, you you made the wrong worst because each of the two subproblems actually harder than the original problem. Which is what normally happens if you try a random thing to try. Normally, it's very easy to transform a problem into even harder problem. Very rarely do you transform a simple problem. So if they can pick up this smell, then they could maybe start competing with human mathematicians. So this is a hard question, but not competing or collaborating. Yeah, if okay, have an oracle. If I gave you an oracle,
So I tried to prompt it. Okay, here is the problem. I suggest using this tool, and it found this lovely argument using a different tool, which eventually goes into the weeds. No, no, no. If I use this, okay, and I start using this, and it will go back to the tool that I wanted to do before, and I had to keep rewriting it onto the path. Do I and I could eventually force it to give the proof I wanted, but it was like coding cats. Like, and the amount of personal effort I had to take to not just to prompt it, but also check it out because it I thought it would look like it was going to work, and I know there was a problem on seventeen, and I began arguing with it. It was more exhausting than doing it on a system. So, but that's the kind of thing I wonder if there is this phase shift that happens where it no longer feels like coding cats, and maybe a surprise is how quickly that comes. I believe so. So, formalization I mentioned before that it takes ten times longer to formalize a proof than write it by hand with modern AI tools, and also just better tooling, the lean development doing a great job at more and more features and making it easier. It's going from nine to eight, just seven, okay, no big deal. But one day we'll drop all one, and that's the shift because suddenly it makes sense when you write a paper to write it in Lean first or through conversation AI, which is generating on the fly, and it becomes natural for journals to accept. And maybe they'll offer extra refereeing. Now, if a paper is ready, be formalized in Lean, they'll just have to referee a comment on the significance of the results and how it makes the literature, and not worry so much about the correctness because that's the sort of thing papers get longer and longer and more and more excruciating harder to get good refereeing for. The really long ones they're really important. It is actually an issue which the formalizations coming in just the right time for this to be and easier and easier. Yes, because the tooling and all the other factors, then you are going to see much more like math will grow, but actually, yeah, yeah, it's a it's a it's a virtual circle. Okay, one phase shift that happened in the past was the old LaTeX. So LaTeX is it
A professional programmer, but the the the the friction cost of doing it is much reduced. So it's it feels like half of me. AI is getting quite good at the truth. I mean, it's still a problem with hallucinating. You know, the references don't exist. But this I think is a solvable problem. If trained in the right way, therefore, you can you can and and verify. You know, using the internet. You know, you you in a few years get the point where you you have a lemma that you need, and anyone proving the number four and would do this fancy way to yeah, these six papers where something similar has happened. I mean, you can ask you right now and give you six papers of which maybe one is the truth and relevant, one is just but is not relevant, and four hallucinated. It hasn't answered your six right now, but it's so much garbage, so much the six most valuable so poor that it's it's it's most helpful when you already somewhat know the structure, and you just need to be prompted to be reminded of a paper that was very consciously in your memory, or just helping you discover new you were not aware of, but is a correct citation. Yeah, that's yeah, that it can sometimes do, but but when it does, it's buried in in the options, which the other are bad. Yeah, I mean, being able to automatically generate a related work section that is correct, yeah, that's a beautiful thing that might be another feature because it assigns quite correctly. Yeah, yeah, it breaks out of the silos of yeah, yeah, yeah. No, you know, yeah, now there's a big jump to overcome right now. I mean, it's it's like self driving cars. The safety margin has to be really high. Yeah, to be um to be feasible. So yeah, so there's the last small problem with a lot of applications that you know they can do tools that work 20 percent, 80 percent of the time, but it's still not good enough, and even worse than good some ways. I mean, another way asking the Fields Medal question is, what year do you think you will come and be like real surprise? You read the headline, the news, something happened that AI did, like you know, real breakthrough something. It doesn't, you know, like Fields Medal even happens. It could be like really just
Solve over the problem and really cannot solve it. But you also hasten to add that sometimes the projection can be very successful. And example you gave, good Gromov proved the Poincaré conjecture, and this so by working alone for seven years with basically little contact with outside world. Can you explain this one million prize problem as the Poincaré conjecture, and maybe speak to the journey that Gromov has been on? All right, so it's it's a question about curvatures. A good example is to think about 3D space. Imagine around the earth, maybe you have a torus, a hole in the middle, many holes, and there are many different topologies out there that that surfaces could have. Even if you assume that it's bounded and smooth and so forth, so we we have figured out the properties as a first approximation. Everything's a torus, and you know how many holes it has. So the sphere has genus zero, the torus has genus one, and so on. And one way you can tell these surfaces are probably the sphere has a simple connected. If you take any closed loop on the sphere, like a big closed rope, you can contract it to a point and wash down the surface, and the sphere has this property. But a torus doesn't. If you have a torus and you take a rope that goes around, say the the equator of the torus, there is no way it can get through the hole. There is no way to contract to a point. So it turns out that the the sphere is the only surface with this property of contractibility up to like continuous deformation of the sphere. So something's about topologically equivalent to the sphere. So Poincaré asked the same question in higher dimensions. So this becomes hard to visualize because surfaces you can think of as embedded in three dimensions, but in three space, we don't have good intuition for these to to to the end. There are also three spaces that can fit into four dimensions, need five, six, or higher. But anyway, mathematics deals with this question that if you have a bounded three-dimensional space now, which also has this simple connected property that every loop can be contracted, can you turn into a three-dimensional sphere? And so this is the Poincaré conjecture. Really, in higher dimensions, four, five, it was actually easier. So it was so first in higher dimensions there's
That showed up. Some singularities, like these, these conjectures, where where the this sort of behavior, like like a bubble, and it it produces a point. Some some singularities are simple enough that you can sort of see what they do next. You just make a snip, and then you can turn one side into two and they're inseparably. But those those the the possibilities from really nasty, like nasty singularities showed that you you couldn't see how to resolve in any way, that you couldn't do any surgery to. So you need to classify all the singularities, like what all the possible things can go wrong. So what Perelman did first of all, he made the problem turn the most difficult problem into a critical problem. I said before how the mention of the of energy Hamiltonian that really clarified Newtonian mechanics. So he introduced something which now Perelman introduced volume and Perelman's entropy. He introduced new quantities, kind of like energy, that looked a little bit less scary and turned the problem into a critical one, where the non-linearities suddenly looked a lot less scary than they did before. And then he had to solve these sort of nasty singularities of the critical problem, and that itself was a problem similar to the way past people thought. So on the on the level of that, so he managed to classify all the singularities of the problem and show how to surgery to these, and do that was able to to resolve the point conjecture. So quite a lot of ambitious steps, and like nothing that a lot like we're model today possible. I mean, at best, I could imagine proposing this idea as one of hundreds of different things to try, but the other ninety would be completely dead end. But you only find after months of work. He must have some sense that this was the right track to pursue because it takes years to get from point A to B. So you've done, like you said, actually even strictly mathematically, but more broadly, in terms of the process, you've done similarly difficult things. What were you infer from the process you were going through? You were doing it alone. What are some low points in the process like that? When you start like you mentioned, harsh, like yeah, there's no no failing. What happens to you? You're sitting here all this when you realize the thing you did for the last few days may be weeks, yeah, is a failure. Well, for
After two years, but if we hadn't had that initial force of new solving the problem, we would have given up by month two or something, and worked on an easier problem. Yeah, we know it would take two years. Not sure we would start the project. Yeah, sometimes actually having the incorrect, you know, as like Columbus traveling to new water and the incorrect version of the measurement of the size of the earth. If the Portuguese coming to find a new trade route in India, at least that was how he saw the perspective. I mean, it could be that yes, he could be new, but there's something like the logical, like emotional or like stuff that just so far on the most like that. You know, this stuff it feels like math. It's it's so involving that like it can break you when you like invest so much on the problem, and then turns out wrong. You start to similar way, yes, has broken some people. Yeah, I I think different mathematicians have different levels of emotional investment in what they do. I mean, some people just stop. You know, you you have a problem, and if it doesn't work out, you you go on to the next one. Yeah, so the fact that you can always move on to another problem reduces the emotional connection. I mean, there are cases, you know, so there are certain problems that are, for example, medical diseases where where just that one problem, and they spend years and years thinking about nothing but that one problem, and you know, maybe the the career stuff doesn't solve it, but I could this big win. This you know, one side, one side finishes this problem. I will make up for the years of of of of solving it, and that's that's. I mean, occasionally occasionally it works, but I I really don't recommend it for people without the right fortitude. Yeah, so I I've never been super invested in one problem. One thing I hope is that we don't need to call problems in advance. Well, when we do call problems, we sometimes we will study these problems, but even there, we don't promise definitely after five years, I will survive through all these things. You know, we you promise to make some progress or discover something new from them, and maybe you don't solve the problem, but you find some related problem that you you can say something new about, and that that's a much more feasible task
That the twin prime conjecture is that it proves that there infinitely many pairs of prime numbers that differ by two. Now, the interesting thing is that you have been very successful at pushing forward the field in answering these complicated questions of this variety, like you mentioned the Green-Tao theorem. It proves that prime numbers contain arithmetic progressions of any length. Is that more than you can prove something? Right. Yes. So what we realize because of this this type of of research is this different patterns, different levels of indestructibility. So so what makes the twin prime problem hard is if you take all the primes in the book, you know three, five, seven, eleven, so forth, they're all twin primes. Eleven, thirteen is twin primes, twin primes, so but you could easily, if you wanted to, reduce the primes to get rid of to get rid of the the twins, like the twins that show up and they're infinitely many of them, but that's reasonably sparse. Not this not initially this quite view, but once you go to the millions, trillions, they become rare and rare. And you could actually just if if someone was given access to the list of primes, if you have few primes here, they could make the twin prime conjecture false by just removing like point zero one percent of the primes or something, just one trillion to to to do this. And so you could present a subset of the primes which passes all these tests of the primes, like it obeys the twin prime theorem and other things of the primes, but doesn't contain twin primes anymore. And this is a obstacle for twin prime conjecture. It means that any proof strategy to actually find twin primes in the actual primes must fail when applied to these slightly edited primes. And so it must be some very subtle delicate feature of the primes that you can't just get from like I could just just go now. Okay, so that's yeah. On the other hand, arithmetic progressions turn out to be much more robust. Like you can take the primes and you can eliminate ninety percent of the primes actually, you know, and you can take any ninety percent you want, and it turns out, and another thing we prove is you still get arithmetic progressions. Arithmetic progressions are much, you know, they're like cockroaches of arbitrary length. Yes. Yes. That's crazy. Yeah. So so for for beyond arithmetic progressions, sequences of numbers that differ by some fixed amount.
One can one can build two other two theories, so you know the the more is is one. This is the kind of thing I mean. Right, right. So one and reasonable thing is is is how to distribute more than one. There are there are tools. So, yeah. So, for example, we we know this in many primes that no two. So, the infinite pair of primes that divide most two and forty six actually is is the kind of so there is a bound, yes, right. So, twin primes, this this cousin primes that divide five four, this single six primes that divide six, twin six primes that divide six. The name is much the the kind of much the sixing than the name suggests. So you can make a conspiracy rule out one of these, but like once you have like fifty of them, it turns out that you can rule out all but one. It's just quite too much energy somehow in this conspiracy space. How do you do the bound part? How do you how do you develop a bound for the different prime numbers? Okay, so there is an infinite number of so it's ultimately based on what's called the pigeon principle. So the pigeon principle just say that if you have a number of pigeons and they all have to go into pigeon holes, and you have more pigeons than pigeon holes, then one of the pigeon holes has to have at least two pigeons. So there has to be two pigeons that are close together. So, for instance, if you have one hundred numbers and they all range from one to a thousand, two of them have to be at most ten apart because you can divide up the numbers one to a hundred into one hundred pigeon holes. Let's let's say one hundred one hundred one numbers, one hundred one numbers, then two of them have to be less than ten apart because two of them have to belong to the same pigeon hole. So it's a basic basic feature of basic principle in mathematics. So it doesn't quite work with primes very because the primes get sparse and sparse as you go. There are few and few numbers of prime, but it turns out that t here is a way to assign weights to the to numbers. So the numbers are kind of almost prime, but they don't have no factors all other than themselves and one. They have very few factors, and it turns out we understand almost primes a lot better than primes. And so, for example, it was known for a long
Some ways to say, you think you solve it, and then you you for it for a very few minutes, and then you think, should check this, this is too too true, and usually is. What do you say about when these problems will be solved? When prime and about prime, I think we will getting getting more partial results. It doesn't need at least one. And the parity barrier is the biggest remaining obstacle. There are simple versions of conjecture where we're getting really close. So I think we will in ten years we will have many more, much closer results. Maybe not half the whole thing. So prime is somewhat close. Riemann hypothesis, I have no, I mean, it has to be accurate. I think so. The Riemann hypothesis is kind of more general conjecture about the distribution of prime numbers. Right? Yeah, it's it's they sort of viewed more predictively, like for questions only involving multiplication, no addition. The primes really do behave as randomly as you could hope. So there is a phenomenon in probably called square root cancellation. That you know, if you want to poll say America on some issue, and you you ask one or two voters, and you may have sample of that sample, and you get you get a really precise measurement of the for average, but if you sample more and more people, the accuracy gets better and better, and it actually improves like the square root of the number of people you you sample. So yeah, if you sample a thousand people, you get like two figures of margin of error. So in the same sense, if you measure the primes, so in some sense, there is certain properties that you can measure. It's called the Riemann zeta function, and it fluctuates up and down. But in some sense, as you keep adding more and more, if you sample more and more, the fluctuations should go down as if they were random. And there is a very precise way to quantify that, and the Riemann hypothesis is a very elegant way to capture this. But as with many other areas of mathematics, we have very tools to show that something really genuinely behaves like random, and this is not just a little random, but it's actually behaves as random as an actually random set. This square root cancellation, and we know because of things like the parity problem that most of us usual techniques cannot hope to solve the question. The proof has to come out of pure, yeah
Even numbers get smaller, odd numbers get bigger. So thirteen would become forty. So thirteen times three is thirty-nine, add one you get forty. So it's a simple process for odd numbers and even numbers. They're both very easy operations, and then you put together, it's still reasonably simple. But then, what happens when you iterate? You take the output you just got and feed it back in. So thirteen becomes forty. Forty is now even. Divide by two, twenty. Twenty is still even. Divide by two, ten. Five, then five times three plus one, sixteen, and then eight, four, two, one. So, and then from one it goes one, four, two, one, four, two, one. It cycles forever. So the sequence I just described: thirteen, forty, twenty, ten. So this also called a hailstone sequence because this an almost simple five model of of hailstone formation, which is not actually quite correct. But so thought to, I suppose, it's just a first approximation. Is that a little nugget of ice gets gets nice crystal forms in a cloud, and it goes up and down because of the wind, and sometimes it's cold, it gets quite a bit more mass, maybe, and melts a little bit, and this process of up and down creates this partially melted ice, which eventually becomes a hailstone, and eventually falls to earth. So the conjecture is that no matter how high you start, like, take a number, just in the millions or billions, you, the process that it goes up if you are odd and down if you are even, eventually comes down to two all the time, no matter where you start. It's a very simple algorithm, and it will run, right? And you might try it for a while, right? Yes. So now, yeah, if you plot these sequences, they look like random motion. They look like a stock market. They just go up and down in a seemingly random pattern, and in fact, usually that's what happens. That if you plug in a random number, you keep proving essentially that it would look like a random walk. And as actually, a random walk would down would drift. It's like if you are always gambling on roulette at casino, with odds slightly against you. So sometimes you you win, sometimes you lose, but over in the long run, you lose a bit more than you win, and so normally your wallet
And unfortunately, and he showed that you you can um you can program it was too incomplete you could you could you could um you could make a program if if your number you in in was included as a prime, it would sink to zero, would go down, otherwise would go up, and things like that. Um, so the general class of problems is is really as complicated as all the mathematics. Some of the mystery of the certain terminal that we talked about, uh, having a mathematical framework to say anything about certain terminal, maybe the same kind of framework is required. Yeah, yeah, conjecture. Yeah, if you want to do it not just simply, but you really want one hundred percent, all the way through to to the, yes. So what might be feasible is yes, something ninety percent, you know, would be called one, but the the like everything, yeah, that part. What would you say is out of these within reach? Famous problems is the hardest problem we have today. Is the Riemann hypothesis? We want it's up there. P equals NP is a good one because like that's that's a matter problem. Like if you solve that in the um in the positive side, you can find P equals NP, and potentially this solves a lot of other problems as well. And we should mention some of the conjectures we've been talking about. You know, a lot of stuff is built on top of them now. Yeah, for fact, P equals NP has more relevance basically any other right. If the Riemann hypothesis is disproved, um, that would be a big mental shock to number theorists, but would have follow-on effects for um cryptography, um, because a lot of cryptography uses number theory, um, uses number theory constructions for primes and so forth, and it relies very much on intuition that number theory has built over many many years of what operations for primes behave randomly and what don't, and in particular, um, methods designed to turn textual information into text which is indistinguishable from um from random noise. So, um, and hence we believe it almost impossible to crack um at least mathematically, um, but uh, if something as core to belief as the Riemann hypothesis is wrong, it means that there there are actually parts of the problem that we're not aware of, and if there's one, there's probably more, um, and suddenly a lot of our cryptographic systems are in doubt. Yeah,
Talks and papers and so forth, but some of you just decided not to engage with the rest of me. It was disillusion or something—I don't know—and you decided to to to peace out and collect mushrooms and see people's work or something. And that's that's fine. You can you can do that. I mean, that's another sort of side. I mean, we're not a lot of problems we solve. You know, some of them do have practical application. That's that's great. But if you stop thinking about a problem, you know, at least here's a published sense in this field. But that's fine. There's many, many other people who do as well. Yes, so I guess one thing I didn't realize initially with the field model is that it sort of makes you part of the establishment. You know, so you know, most mathematicians you just you just career mathematicians, you know, you just focus on publishing in a paper, maybe getting one, just a per m o r t one rank, you know, and and starting a few projects, maybe having some students or something. But then suddenly, people want your opinion on things, and you have to think a little about the you know things that you might just foolishly say because you know no one's going to listen to you. This is more important. Is it constraining you? Are you able to still have fun and be a rebel and try crazy stuff? Well, I have a lot less free time than I had previously. I mean, mostly by choice. I mean, I I always have the option just of declining. I try to decline a lot of things. I could decline even more. Or I could acquire reputation things that are valuable that you don't even ask anymore. This is I love the different algorithms here. Yes, this is it's always an option, but you know the other thing is that like I mean, so I mean, I don't spend as much time as I suppose talking just just working on one problem at a time more fooling around. I still do that a little bit, but yeah, as you advance, you create some of the more soft skills. So, math, some of front knowledge, all the technical skills to the end stage of career. So, yes, so as a postdoctoral researcher, you you you're incentivized to basically focus on proving very technical things to prove yourself as follows proof fields. But then
Just and I think I was the right place the right time. Just someone doesn't have to buy two or three. It doesn't mean that they can't be good mathematicians. I mean, there are people that just in a very different style, and we need people of different style. And you know, even and sometimes too much focus is given on only person to the last step to complete a project in mathematics. That's really taken you know centuries of decades of lots and lots of brilliant and previous work, but that's just story is difficult to tell if you're an expert because it's easier to just say one person did this one thing. You know, it makes so much simple history. I think in the whole, it is a hugely positive thing. The the work Steve Jobs has represented a valuable when a person knows, and of course everybody knows the incredible design, the incredible engineering team, just the individual humans are not a team. They're individual humans on a team, and there's a lot of brilliance there, but it's just nice sure and like very like pie, yeah. Steve Jobs, yeah, yeah. As a starting point, yeah, yeah, as a first approximation, yeah, and then read some biographies and then look into more deep approximation. Yeah, that's right. You you were present to Andrew Wiles at that time. Oh, yeah, professor there. The funny moment how history is just all interconnected, and at that time he nows the proof for Mersenne's last theorem. What did you think? Maybe looking back now, more content about that moment in math history. Yes, I was there. Just another time. I mean, I vaguely remember, you know, there was pressure and we all had the same we all put holes in the same mirror, you know, so we all put the same mirror, and like suddenly Andrew Wiles' mirror box exploded. It's a good, that's a good math story. Yeah, you know, so yeah, we all talked about it at some point. I mean, we we didn't understand most of us, so and the proof, we had sort of piecely tell us, but it's an ongoing project to formalize it. I mean, I can't imagine. Yeah, can we take a small tangent? Is it is it hard difficult to do that? As as Andrew stands for Mersenne's the proof for Mersenne's theorem is like super complicated objects. Yeah
With people like that, well, I want to give up because the first approach, I didn't work, and the second approach, they convinced and they have the fourth and the fifth works. And I have to admit, okay, I didn't think it was going to work, but yes, you are right. And we just have to be. Now, not only you know for the brilliance that you work, but the incredible productivity, just the number of papers, which are all of very high quality. So there is something to be said about being able to jump from top to top. Like, yeah, it works for me. Yeah, I mean, I am also people are very productive, and they focus very deeply. Yeah, they have to find their own workflow. One thing which is a shame in mathematics is that we have mathematics the so wonderful approach to teaching mathematics, and you know, so we have a certain curriculum and so forth. I mean, you know, maybe like if you do math competitions or something, you get a slightly different experience. But I think many people they don't find their native math language until very late, or usually too late to start doing mathematics, and they have a bad experience with a teacher who's trying to teach them one way to do mathematics, and they don't like it. My theory is that humans don't come evolution has not given us a maths centre of brain directly. We have a vision centre, a language centre, and some other centres which evolution owns, but we it doesn't. We don't have innate mathematics, but other centres are sophisticated enough that different people we we we can re-purpose other areas of our brain to do mathematics. So some people figure how to use the visual centre to do mathematics, so they think very visually when they do mathematics. Some people have re-purposeed the language centre and they think very symbolically, you know. Some people, like if they are very competitive and they like gaming, there is a part of their brain that's very good at at at solving puzzles and games, and and that can be re-purposed. But when I talk to other mathematicians, you know, they don't quite think. I can tell that they use a lot of different styles of thinking, and I mean, not not disjoint, but they they may prefer visual. I I I don't use visual so much. I need also visual aids myself. You know, mathematics is a common language, so we can talk to
Need to be a PhD holder to just work on one topic thing. There's something about the formalization here that also is a very first step opens up to the programming community too. Yes, people are already comfortable with program. It seems like programming is somehow. It's just feeling, but it feels more accessible to folks than math. Yeah, seen as this like extreme special mathematics, seen as extremely difficult, and area and programming is not something that can be just an entry point. You can execute code and get results. You can follow the world pretty quickly. Yeah, like if if programming was taught as almost highly theoretical subject, where you just talk the computer science, the theory of functions and and and routines and all that, and outside of some very specialized homework assignments, you know, I could program on the weekend for fun. Yeah, yeah, there would be as considered harder math. Yeah, so I said there are communities of non-mathematicians where they're deploying math for some very specific purpose, like optimizing the poker game, and and then the math comes from them. What does this give in general to young people how to pick a career, how to find themselves? Like that's a tough tough tough question. Yeah, so there's a lot of certainty now in the world. You know, I mean, there was a period after the war where, at least in the West, you know, if you came from a good background, you, you know, like you, there was a very stable path to a good career. You go to college, you get education, you pick one profession, and you stick to it. This becoming a sort of thing of the past. So I think you just have to be adaptable. I think people have to just go out and try new things. You know, like learning one specific programming language, one specific subject, mathematics. Something it's it's that is obviously not a super transferable skill, but sort of knowing how to reason with abstract concepts or how to problem solve things or whatever. So anyway, these are things which I think we still need, even as tools get better. You know, you're you're working with AI, so forth. But actually, you're in this case that you're like one of the great living mathematicians, right? And then you had a way of doing things, and then also you started learning. First of all, you kept learning new fields. Yeah, but you learn lean. That's
Just about a lot of what I get into, I don't quite see the process. How much time I am going to spend on it, and it's only after I am sort of wasted in in in the project that I realize that I am kind of committed. Well, that's deeply admirable that you are willing to go to the fray. Be in some small way a beginner, right? Or have some of the sort of challenges that a beginner would, right? Yeah, new concepts, new ways of thinking, also, you know, sucking at a thing that others, I think, thinking that talk. You could be a fielder, a winning mathematician, an undergraduate, something better. Yeah, I think mathematics in the end, they, I mean, mathematics is so hugely said. Nobody knows all of mathematics, and inevitably we make mistakes, and you know, you can't cover mistakes with just sort of bravado, and and I mean, because people ask for proofs, and you don't have the proofs, you have the proofs. I love math. Yeah, so it does keep us honest. I mean, not I mean, you can still it's not a perfect pursuit, but I think we do have more of a culture of admitting error than because we're forced to. Well, the big ridiculous question. I am sorry for once again. Who is the greatest mathematician of all time? Maybe one who's no longer with us, who are the candidates? Euler, Gauss, Newton, Ramanujan. So, first of all, is this much more like this? This time dependent, but and then, yeah, like if if you if you if you put humorly over time, for example, Euclid like sort of like is is one of the big tenders, and then maybe unnamed anonymous just before that, you know, we came up with the sort of numbers, you know, do mathematicians they still feel the impact of it? We're just, oh yeah, directly of everything that's happened in twentieth century. Yeah, the most places of possible things are named after them, of course. Just the range of mathematics, just the introduction of certain concepts. I mean, twentieth problems have been extremely influential. T here is some strange power to the clearing which problems. Yeah, hard to solve. The state of the open problems. Yeah, I mean, this is bystander effect everywhere. Like, if no one says to do X, everyone's all
It's it's been very interesting. The way the really the the formulation of the problems and correct is, they're really no longer a just a solo human. We're really augmented in extremely complicated, intricate ways, right? Yeah, the worry like a collective intelligence. Yes, yeah, yes. It's just humanity plural has much more intelligence, particularly on his good days, than than the individual humans put together. It can have less, okay, but yeah. So yeah, math math the mathematical community plural is is incredibly super intelligent, and the the most single human mathematician can can come close to to it. Getting you see it a little bit on these questions, not just science, but the mathematical flow, just the mathematical style flow, and sometimes you get like this very quick questions, very difficult questions from the community, and it's it's it's a pleasure to watch. You know, as as an expert, I'm a fan spectator of that of that. Just seeing the brilliance of different people, the the depth and knowledge that people have, and the willingness to engage in the in the rigor and the nuance of the particular questions. Pretty cool to watch. It's fun. It's almost like just fun to watch. It, uh, what gives you hope about this whole thing of going on human civilization? I think yeah, the younger generations always like are really creative and enthusiastic and independent. Um, it's a pleasure working with with with with youngsters. Um, you know, the the progress of science tells us that problems that used to be very difficult can become extremely, you know, can become like trivial stuff. You know, I mean, like always, like navigation. You know, just knowing where you are on the planet was this. I mean, as people would die, you know, all lost fortunes because they couldn't navigate. You know, and we have devices and pockets that just automate for us. Like it's completely solved problems. You know, so things that seem impossible for us now could be maybe just a homework exercise for us. Yeah, one of the things I find really sad about the finiteness of life is I won't get to see all the cool things we create as a civilization. You know, that because in the next hundred years, two hundred years, just imagine showing showing up in two hundred years. Yeah, well, a very funny thing, you know, like if you could go back in time and talk to your teenage self or something
