I love the library. It is, it is absolutely beautiful library. I agree. Um, you know, I mean, I I read a lot in general. I don't know that I've had much time over the last year. So, Dario Amodei is an unlikely AI celebrity. He's known for warning the world about the risks of artificial intelligence. Now, his company is an AI frontrunner, valued nearly a trillion dollars. You're shipping so much so fast. How are you doing that? We use, you know, cross the product development cycle and allows us to release very fast. Founded by a team of OpenAI defenders in 2021, Anthropic started out as an underdog lab. Today, it's the breakout star, wiping billions in value off software stocks, going head to head with OpenAI and creating models allegedly powerful enough to burst through the walls of modern cybersecurity. Some of the early companies that we gave this to said things like, "This is a super weapon. Please don't release this." Guiding Anthropic through this is a sibling duo, Dario, the brother and visionary, and Daniela, the sister and operator, who puts Dario's swirling cosmic thoughts into action. Dario and I, we've always been really close since we were little, but I think we always really wanted to do something big together. Okay, why do you argue who wins? No, no, I. As the AI arms race escalates, the Amodeis are eager to establish themselves as the good guys. But Anthropic's technology could have profound implications for how humanity works, learns, thinks, even fights wars. Anthropic is run by an ideological lunatic. This is debate about what the proper use of AI by the government is. Some of the models become very dangerous. You know, the bad guys will have to, and at that point, we have to make sure the good guys have even better models. The name Anthropic actually comes from the Greek word for human, which makes sense to build responsible AI for the long-term benefit of humanity. Can you actually do that when you're building the most powerful technology in the world? You are at the center of the AI universe right now. What does that feel like? The experience I've had from my whole career, and certainly the whole time at Anthropic, is that there's this kind of smooth exponential. And the experience, the smooth exponential, is nothing happening, nothing happening
That approach helps supercharge OpenAI's models, paving the way for ChatGPT. But the arguments reportedly clash with Altman over the company's direction and values. Altman has said, "For all the differences I have with Anthropic, I mostly trust them as a company. Your decision to leave OpenAI is being taken very,
Coding and enterprise. Why did you make that bet? Was it a was it a value decision or a business decision? Look, if you pick a business model that fundamentally conflicts with your values, you are going to have a hard time, right? Either you betray your own values, or you become irrelevant. And so, we thought about it. We said, look, you know, we've seen the world of social media, the consumer world. It it really seems to, you know, encourage engagement, even addiction. You know, the slop we've seen with AI value models. It's like what's going on is it one maximizes the number of minutes that you are you are paying attention to because that's the advertising revenue driven incentive. Whereas, if we look at enterprise, look, I mean, you know, we want to make these models useful to people. We want to use AI to, uh, you know, cure diseases that we couldn't cure before, right? Well, that's working with biotech, it's working with pharma, it's working with academic research groups. All of those are enterprises, right? We want to use AI to, like, you know, to make energy cheaper and more efficient. That's that's all enterprise. And so, I think it serves us well to have this business model that largely aligns with our values. Soon after Claude Code was released, two hundred eighty-five billion dollars in market value vanished overnight. Traders called it the Sasquatch. This kind of white, white house story in the software space, terrifying. Some of that is down for nine days, right? So, clearly, the tension is there. If AI continues improving at this pace, how much of traditional software gets replaced, and how fast? I think with AI, like the pie is getting bigger, right? So the existing incumbents, maybe smaller in relative terms, some of them may may go down in value, some of them may even may even go out of business if they don't if they don't adapt in the right way. But, like, I would guess that the software industry gets larger and not smaller. Although there will be some big losers, those who don't kind of see what's coming, who don't identify the most, they have they're going to have a really hard time. Anthropic's recent growth might not have happened without this man, George Terny, the engineer behind Claude Code and Claude Code Work
Developers and users, welcome to the second annual Code with Claude conference. We're Claude super fans. Come hoping to get glimpse of the future. We're having a lot of fun. There's a ton of adrenaline. This is the first year we've grown faster than exponential. In the first quarter of this year, we saw if you were to annualize it, ADX growth for you. I use Claude every day in the form of Claude code to do all sorts of stuff. Not just write code. I write more code than anybody else. I got the confidence. I don't want twenty-two-year-olds with money. I'm not twenty-two. My friend invited me. And I've been inviting others. That's not really technical. I think it's really interesting to see why everyone's working on what's out there. I think the concerning part or the exciting part is, hey, they can do things that we couldn't dream of. Timeline, we couldn't ever expect. But kind of all turned inside of that reality is, you really have to be prepared because they will really be a thousand times more productive. All of this raises an obvious question: Will engineers be the first casualties of AI building? It's been revenge of nerds for a while. Is that over? I think we all become nerds. But what happens to the actual nerds? I think the actual nerds will—they have to figure it out. Yeah, I think for a lot of them, the skill that they had before is going to help them in the future because they sort of have a pretty big head start. They do a lot of things that are not coding. Engineers also have to talk to users. They have to plan. They have to think about what's next. So I think these are still parts of engineering that are going to stick around. Silicon Valley may have AI fever, but elsewhere the mood is less upbeat. Seventy percent of Americans think AI will kill jobs, and nearly a third worry there's will be one of them. Dario Amodei has been outspoken about this issue, and some of his predictions don't exactly sound reassuring. I think we could have this very unusual combination of very fast GDP growth and high unemployment, or at least underemployment, or you know, low wage job, a lot of low wage jobs, high inequality. Even really direct about job loss, AI could eliminate half of all entry level white collar jobs in the next five years. That was a
Three seconds, and so my message is just definitely not doomist. Coming, my message is like this is something you know that we should see coming, that we're worried about, and that we need actually respond to positively. Beyond the software industry, the potential impact of AI on jobs seems harder to predict. Anthropic has published a paper estimating which fields could make the most use of AI in the near future. If its predictions are right, management, finance, and legal jobs could soon look very different. Which jobs go away? Who gets replaced? And what new jobs are created? So no one knows for sure. Um, because you know the economy is unpredictable. The thing that that we have going for us here is the pie is going to expand a lot, and so because the pie is going to expand a lot, there are probably going to be places where people can go. It's just a matter of finding them fast enough. So please tell me a little bit. You know, you wake up in five years. You know, what does this country look like? What are those people doing? Yeah, so there's that much unemployment. Is that not how revolutions start? Yeah, no. This is the outcome we want to prevent. This is absolutely the outcome we want to prevent. I think there's a few places, none of them guaranteed or not sure, but there's the physical world. There are a lot of more people to make build, manufacture things in the physical world. Anything that's human-centered, I think that's going to be a big deal, right? People, or at least some people, want to talk to humans. So these kind of human relationship-driven jobs, like I think those are going to be important. And I think there'll be some effort by the humans to kind of direct the AI, right? At some level, has to be in line with someone's values and someone's intentions. And and so I I think there's going to be some role there, although I don't know how thin versus how thick it will be. I think I feel a little bit more hopeful that humans will continue to find ways to leverage AI to be productive, to do the parts of the work that are meaningful to us that only humans can do. I think the human-human interaction will never fully go away. The example I often reach for is is what happened in medicine. Today we hire doctors who are expert diagnosticians. I think AI is going to soon be
You know, my view of this technology—you know—worries me that we have a kind of rigid authoritarian block that they're very aggressive, and that we need to defend ourselves. You know, I may not agree with every policy of either administration, but you know that's why we've generally been supportive of this. You've been working with Palantir since twenty twenty four. That's right. You know, their technology used by police departments in Gaza is Claude being used for surveillance in other ways. We we don't work with AI either through Palantir or anyone else. We don't work with C B P. I don't believe we work in Gaza. We're very careful about you know scopeing our engagements to things that we believe in. In twenty twenty five, Anthropic, along with OpenAI, XAI, and Google, won a two hundred million dollar contract with the Pentagon. Anthropic framed it as an opportunity to become the leading AI vendor for the government. Claude was reportedly used by the U. S. Military in the operation to seize Venezuela and President Nicolas Maduro. Weeks later, everything started to unravel. We bring you breaking news from Anthropic, the Department of Defense, the man that Anthropic allowed full use of its AI technology without our rules. Anthropic drew red lines, refusing to let Claude be used for mass surveillance and autonomous weapons, putting the company on a collision course with the Pentagon. The Pentagon facing a deadline today to accept conditions or be blacklisted. As a commercial entity, have the right to determine how their product is used by the military. Lawsuits were filed, and Anthropic was banned from the Pentagon, underscored by strong words from President Trump and Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth. Anthropic is run by an ideological lunatic who shouldn't have a. But that's not my question. My question is, AI making what we do? Do you mind being called an ideological lunatic or a bunch of left wing nutjobs? You know, I've been called worse things than that all the time. What does winning this fight actually look like? I won't even call it a fight. This is more a debate about what the proper use of AI by the government is, and AI is an emerging new technology. We don't understand the ways in which it's reliable, unreliable. We don't understand the ways in which it promotes our values or undermines our values, and so one of the things that I thought was important was to establish precedent
Using technology as a shortcut in war. The principle that was obeyed here is a human makes the human makes the final decision. I don't know what role Claude and the other AI had, but like if if this isn't an illustration, why that principle is so important? I don't know what it is. Is AI warfare more likely to stop world war three, a war between the U. S. and China, or is it more likely to make it happen? I would say on balance it is more likely to stop it, but if we have no limits on how it's used, then I think you know could be more likely to cause it. You've seen doctors train to write the premise of it was like you know you have a Doom's Day device that automatically fires nuclear weapons when it thinks nuclear weapons are being fired at it. What could go wrong, right? I think the way conflicts happen is that you know the the two sides jump at each other, they misunderstand each other, and when we don't have proper oversight of this technology, I think those kinds of accidents are more likely to happen. Now I think AI is used in a proper way in in in not even warfare, but think of just just intelligence collection. Um, you know, like you know, our adversaries will think twice about uh, you know, about conducting some kind of invasion or military operation if we know everything that they're doing. AI's role in the battlefield raises difficult questions, even for a company willing to debate the ethical dilemmas of its own technology. Its conversation always seems eager to have in public. How do you handle the pressure? I try very hard to communicate and always be straightforward and honest. I get up in front of the company every two weeks and just talk for an hour about just what's on my mind, what's going on in the industry, what's going on in the outside world. It's totally uncensored. And not only does it build trust, it's very freeing for me. Where I feel that I have three thousand people who are on the same page as me, that is incredible and fire and is one of the most useful things in handling handling the pressure. Then when we have to confront an external challenge, stand up to you know some very difficult situations that we've seen the last few months. That is what allows us to have a consistent and coherent position. And and I think I think it's an incredible advantage because I never feel like I'm alone. Looking in
That to make trade-offs already that you're not entirely comfortable with. Throughout the entire history, a betropic has been trade-offs. Right? In some ideal world, you would prefer to be before you release the first chatbot. You know, you could spend years studying. You know, every every possible thing that could go wrong with it. Now we did delay. We did delay the initial release of Claude, but you know, we did it for a few months. So, everything is a trade-off. Now that we're in, you know, what I would describe as a commercially leading position, we can afford to move the dial even further toward being careful. Right? That's what the Mythos release was about. Right? It's very hard to do something like that if you're not the leading player. There's this argument: Why wouldn't the government take you over? Why would they let a private company control technology that's so powerful? So I think I actually think that's a very that's a very serious question, and I share those concerns. I don't think the government should outright take us over. Every previous powerful technology we've seen in history was either built by the government or originated with the government. So nuclear weapons, obviously, you know, initially built by the government. The internet, GPS, cell phones, AI is the first technology that's been built in the private sector. Um, and where government has not really had a serious role and is coming in late to the game, I think that's actually a dangerous and unstable situation. It is not the situation I would have chosen. This technology, I'm scared of companies having it, but I'm also scared of government having it. And then, you know, we need basic regulation of the technology. You know, more and more, as I've seen what we've seen with Mythos, you know, I think we need to start doing pre-release testing, required pre-release testing, testing, auditing of the models. This was an approach the White House rejected initially. On his first day back in office, President Trump, with the help of former AI cryptographer David Sachs, dismantled President Biden's AI executive orders, seeking guidelines. Instead, favoring a hands-off, let Silicon Valley do its thing approach. We believe that excessive regulation of the AI sector could kill a transformative industry just as it's taking off. But with Mythos and its national security implications proving hard to ignore, the White House now
And bad things happening. I hope that this doesn't happen. We can all just be, you know, as peacefully as possible. It was scary to me too. I mean, you know, this is like a, a less savory aspect of the experimental, right? That as AI gets more and more of of a thing, like you know, becomes just a big deal to society. T here is more attention on it. T here is been massive backlash against social media companies starting to ban it. Could that happen to AI? I think it's it's absolutely possible if the social media companies could go back in time and see the world that they see today, would they do anything differently? I like to think the answer to that is yes. I don't know if we sort of project some of the challenges that the social media companies face around child welfare, mental health, election integrity. All of these topics. We're really lucky that we're we're second. We did our job to try and proactively think about all of the things that could go wrong. Because if we don't, who's going to? You know, I don't know if they actually set out to do the right thing or make the world a better place, and so I don't think if they were going bad, they were even knowing what they do and they certainly should do things differently. I don't know if they actually will, but we can. This is why we're trying to get this right the first time. Instead of waiting for things to go wrong, then scrambling to justify why it's all okay. The main way I could see AI being, you know, beyond blocked is if something really went wrong, and if something really went wrong, then maybe it's worth to be. You have technology saying it's going to be something, and others saying it could be awful. Where are you on that spectrum? I hope the best, but plan for the worst. For me, this is the most important work I've ever done. For some people, it feels like this is the last job, because this is sort of the it could be the end of work. And I think for other people, it's you know, like maybe it's not the last job, but it's essential to get this right. And so there is just this this kind of burden. If the impact could be as significant as we're talking about, as significant as Anthropic has warned about, what responsibility do you think Anth
Chance of civilizational collapse—that is not insignificant. Is there a scenario where it's something that anthropic built that caused that? I mean, I certainly hope not. My view is that that probability comes from the very straightforward recipe of the technology, the existence of many countries in the world, the existence of many companies within an economy, and new ones created if the void isn't filled. Like that's the dilemma that we're in. Half of what we do within the company is trying—you know—reduce the risk as much as we can, but it's never going to be zero. Suppose there are a bunch of you know airline companies out there, and you're like, "Well, I'm going to make an airline company that's safer." It can both be the case that you know your airline company is 10 times safer than all the other airline companies, but if someone comes and asks you, like, "Can you guarantee that your airplane will never crash?" I mean, how could you? How could you possibly? But if there was a 25% chance of an airplane crashing, you wouldn't get on that plane. That's right. 25% is too high. We're trying to make that probability much, much lower. That's—that is—that is the goal. How do you find yours? And how do you relax? You know, honestly, a lot of it's just exposure to it. You know, sometimes I'll just like, you know, I'll take a weekend and I'll like play some video games. Sometimes with Daniela, me and my wife go to Italy. Sometimes we have a horse there, so I'll just I'll just sit there next. I'll just I'll just look at our horse and I'll be like, you know, Calypso, who's our horse? Like, you know, she doesn't know about any of this. Like, she's just a happy horse. Like.
