Like what is speculative coding? So it is a on the high level. It is a technique to speed up inference. And because I'm also a contributor to VLM, so I will also talk about its integration with VLM. And I will also briefly mention like two research uh two research projects I did during my PhD, which further improve the performance of speculative coding. Yeah. Uh. Next slide, please. Okay. Um. So first, what is um? So speculative coding tries to solve the problem is that um generation is too slow. But to understand why is um generation is slow, we need to understand the memory hierarchy of um of modern hardware, which is like GPU. Basically, we use GPU to solve the LM. So if you look at the graph here, it's a little bit stale. Like um, if I remember correctly, this is memory hierarchy for A100. Nowadays we use like H100 or G200. But but the high level idea is similar, right? Like you you have different layers of um storage. You have like GPU SRAM, GPU HBM. You also have like CPU memory. And um, this is very similar to the like CPU memory hierarchy, right? Like for SRAM, it's super fast, but it's um, but it's super small, right? It's only twenty megabytes here. Um, but for HBM, you have like forty gigabytes. It's okay, but um, but it's slower than SRAM. And if the model is too big to fit in SRAM or HBM, you need to put them in CPU memory, like um, in the main memory. Um, and it's it's it's big. It's like over like one terabyte, but it's uh super slow. And nowadays, if you look at like say Llama um Llama three seven seventy B, or um or larger model like like V three model, then here like this is a number from like Llama to Llama three, it's seventy seventy B um model parameters, and it's to use like BF sixteen, which is a normal data type we use for serving those large language model. The model weights can have like one hundred forty gigabytes of memory, and the the size is too big to even fit in like HBM. Um, but we have different hardware tricks. But suppose suppose um suppose it can fit in HBM, like we we put multiple like multiple GPUs
For example, pretty pretty easy like like yeah like a small model with tokens, but some tokens are pretty difficult to generate. Maybe only the large model, but some tokens are really really really difficult to generate. So, I here is to use small model for small tokens and use large model to generate more tokens. Um. So here is an. So all that I uh is is the example with speculative. So basically, given a prompt, you generate t one, t two, t three, three tokens all regress, but with speculative, um, yeah, can finish, can finish this, yeah. Yeah. So what you do is you first send the prompt to a small model. Let's say it's a model with only one billion parameters, and you propose small tokens to all regress. You still get t one, t two, t three prompt, and what you do is you send those tokens to the large model to verify those proposed tokens. And and one thing to like example here, t one, t two regress and t three prompt incorrect and the correct token is t three. So one thing to note is here is the verification is happens in a single forward pass. So basically, you run the large and large model once, but you get more than one token. Right? You do the model with only one to pull the model from H one to S one once, and then you run the model forward pass, and then you know t one, t two correct, t three is t three prompt is incorrect. So that's what I mean that this technique like and find the model with lowing cost reduce uh reduce the memory access so that it can reduce inference because uh generate is memory bound. And equality, I have a problem. Oh, you mean some words difficult, some tokens difficult, some easy, but whatever tokens go to the same flow, same place, uh, similar. So they mean the the time is same. So why is some why is easier, some why is difficult? I think that's the same. Okay. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So yes. So from the from the inference side, they go to the same model. They they yeah they use the same energy. Exactly the the one says some is easy, some is difficult. I mean, some tokens can be generated with small model. But like example here, you run a small model to propose some tokens because some tokens are easy. So the small model can propose correctly. Okay. Yeah. Uh. Yeah
So this is um I was say this is about like two years ago. So when specifically for the um purpose, um so um if you finish the like yeah yeah um yeah oh before before that, it is I want to emphasize that so mathematically, like um people can prove that with um specifically that's not a fact um performance, so it's not only specifically a model uh accuracy because that one is not so that's why um is the company that uh in fact people because it's not like uh fact the model um so about two years ago when we first the specifically parameters is the specifically matrix C is a draft model specifically so basically we have small model say like three B and then large model say like seven B and we use that three three B model to generate that uh seven B model um and there are some commonly see model pairs that we will use like a six A model to generate seven B model seven B model to generate seven B model but there is a problem is that how do we find the small model? So when actually when we are using the model, say the only small model like uh small batch only release A B seven B three B seven B you don't have like a draft model that can have any model size and also um even today we we haven't found a very good draft model for like three A B because um because we don't have like a two three model to make it like relatively good performance, so it's a it's relatively expensive to train the model, so that's why we haven't so yeah so um if we do um like the X so okay yeah for that so this is one um of the thing that we have in our lab, so basically we implement the first version of specifically the um draft model base model um and there are um the the blue line is a draft model base model and the red line is not a model and the X axis is different yes, so basically from the very first experiment and the Y axis is so the lower that so you can see that when P B is low, you can have like say one point five X yeah, right. Actually, have a good question. So why do we see smaller performance when we use smaller P B's? Yeah, so so recently that um so specifically try try to solve the problem that um I want inference memory, but when batch size bigger, you have more inference memory. So eventually, um, you get from specific models uh is less because you have less inference memory. Yeah, okay. As mentioned
In example here is that all um you have all the three tokens correct. So in that case, you reduce the generation. So um to summarize, right? So probabilistic is example using a draft model to propose tokens. Let's build a lookup table. You can all the um and you can send the candidates to propose tokens. And this is um the original LM. So basically, we implement probabilistic um and we can take all the hidden states, summarize it, and you can see that it can give us up to like two point x, two point two point eight x. So after that, are more specific tokens. Uh and uh and uh so here is the um example. And now this is the M P. So the idea is um we don't want to train another model, or we don't want to have like a lookup table. So we will just have some additional layers, um additional layers, um um on top of the original LM. So yeah, if you look at the graph, right? So originally you send the um last hidden states to the LM to generate tokens. But here you add some additional heads, additional layers, and you send the last hidden states to those additional heads to propose tokens. So um so idea is that we can use some information of the main model and send them to some additional heads to propose tokens, example training in the LM. Um, so one thing I want to um emphasize is one thing we see in open source community is that um M P, which is um first proposed by the DC um vision model, um so M P stands for multi token prediction. Um, it's um like one more open source models are using this. So what is M P? So basically, um, so the first part is the yeah, yeah, direction. So the the first one is the main model, right? You have multiple layers to generate tokens, but you have some like um additional heads. It's it's also transformer block, but only has one layer. So we use um those layers to propose tokens. So basically, send the last hidden states to the additional layers and use them to propose tokens. Um, and then it can it can use back code or that send them to the original model model for verification. But there is more implication than like inference. Because I think the implication is that now there is a lot of models that are very big, right? That seventy B, one hundred B, two hundred B. So why can why can it
So there are two observations in this workflow. So the first is that this process is static. So basically, the draft model is unchanged; it's always the same draft model. And the second one is we have the labels. Basically, we know like what model, what tokens the draft model for, and which tokens for, exactly which tokens for improve. So we have all the labels for free. So instead of having so basically two observations, we are seeing that instead of instead of having a static static draft model, let's update the draft model. So basically, let's reinforce the draft model to make it better. So the idea here is that instead of storing those like um tokens or probability distribution away, we will store them in the buffer. And in the buffer, you can see to store the draft current token and also the probability distribution, and use them to reinforce like to improve the draft model. Here we use different like matrix like distance matrix basically um to update the draft model. Um, basically to make the draft model smarter and smarter, and make the draft model kind of overflow so overflow current inference, overflow the current inference. So how good it is? So um, this is um, yeah, this is an example here. So the X axis is um, like how many tokens you have. So far, so the Y axis is our current acceptance rate. So if you have higher tokens acceptance rate, you can imagine you have more speed up. So basically, if you only have offline distilled model, or you see the acceptance rate is like forty percent. So basically, for every ten tokens, the draft model for about four tokens will be accepted. Yeah, so so we so online updates you um we can improve the acceptance rate very quickly achieving like so much improvement. So basically, for online training, we keep using that to update the draft. Um, and we also did some exploration for the customization like customized draft model. So the idea here is that um, yeah, the idea here is that like different um different workflows have different ways. Here, um, you will have a draft model for like best draft model, coding draft model, social draft model, social yes, social draft model, and coding draft model. So basically, different draft models, different different ways. So um, if you want to understand the intuition, for example, um, like like like maybe I may talk about like research, specifically coding area. So the tokens I generate, really generate will be very likely to
Spectacle actually is like slow down the process. Yeah. So here like one point five slow down, one point five slow. So the intuition behind the slowdown is, so I think I want to find find into the reason why it is slow, but the higher level explanation, spectacle tries to solve the problem that our current research is worried about. So but when the CPU is high, you are worried about you are more compute bound, you have more tokens you are more compute bound. So in that case, spectacle is less beneficial. And what even works in that spectacle need to verify tokens that might not be a spectacle. Not all the tokens are processed by the draft model. Actually, some of them are wrong. So you have some overhead, and the overhead is okay when you have some actual compute, but it becomes very much very expensive when you have high. So that's why you have slowdown. Yeah, just want to like an explanation. So at the higher level, spectacle use waste computation for higher memory efficiency. So a higher memory efficiency, you can get more tokens for the two one four pass. So a higher memory efficiency, but it wastes computation for some of the tokens that are wrong. And when you are inference, it's bounded by compute, which is higher access, which is a higher access is the compute that you waste is not tolerable, and it reflects the extra overhead. Yeah, yeah, skip the words. Skip this. Yeah, skip. Yeah, skip. Yeah, skip. Yeah. So we so so to solve this problem, we have a we have a paper. So to solve this problem, so basically when the system load system load is high, you are more compute bound. So in that case, you should propose that you should like do spectacle correctly. But if the system load is high, we should do a bit more. So this is the higher idea is to dynamically adjust the proposals. When the system load is high, so I guess for the inference, the inference feature. Uh, skip. Yeah, skip. Okay. So uh, for the last several comments, I will on the higher level talk about spectacle in detail. So I think the first if you look at the time timeline graph, right? So in twenty one sixteen number, it's the first spectacle appear, like the pioneer spectacle feature. And after that, we go very um long developments uh process, right? We have draft model, spectacle, like Aurora, Aurora spectacle, spectacle,
CPU overhead, so this the first picture is, um, yeah, the first picture is with optical. So we we have about like ten percent CPU, ten to fifteen CPU overhead to running the scheduler, and we have about eighty five percent, um, spend eighty five percent of time, um, to run large model, um, and with optical, the standard is also pretty similar. So if the number of rounds is around, so the um the the overhead is CPU overhead is also like fifteen percent large model or eighty five percent. So the rejection sampling, the the problem of sampling or around, like lookup time or um is pretty small, is like less than eighty five. So around is a very all problem of sampling, yeah, um, is a very efficient, um, optical method. Implementing in a very efficient way, yeah, and for the other like round based or like equal like solution has, so those types of optical, the problem overhead is twenty percent, um, and but if you can use the speed up, uh, yeah, because um, the overhead is pretty small, is only like um like five percent of of all the model parameters. Yeah, I think that's that's all I want to say. So we could so we see, if we use optical, I talk about some research projects and actually, uh, sampling, uh, I think it's a promising and actually, more and more companies are using around, um, yeah. So I feel, um, if you are interested in performance optimization, that's exactly it. Thank you. Yes, the sampling is very insightful, um, and I think if you have a very efficient regarding sampling, so um, so if you use the the large the new uh, many algorithms and my question is, uh, if we want to run some large model, we want to improve and then use sampling to improve the performance. So what kind of workload is uh pretty suitable for sampling and what kind of sampling technique uh you recommend to use? So um, if our company and especially start uh don't have many resources to train a model, so I will um generally recommend the problem of sampling or with around um because large models free and it's more suitable for any like small iteration, so basically output and input can be overhead. In that case, you can use optical sampling, optical generation. So in that case, yeah, for for some core ideas, we can uh very easily to see like two examples, like five times
Or to express the idea or to express something in general. Oh, just uh different, just different implementation. So basically, uh, yeah, we try different, uh, try different like uh, uh, layer, layer structure, like different layer structure. We can just use the traditional like uh, uh, installation method, uh, and and yeah, you can think of like just fine tune a lot, but using different models. Uh, and then have not yet, not really, maybe. Yeah. Especially, um, just maybe more related to the uh, the draft model. I just wonder the model itself as the large, small, large library model, right? So yeah, only or or also theories like maybe, um, I just wonder, uh, in your opinion, are we collocated with one? Um, I just wonder, uh, what's for the, I I don't know in your words, what's the size ratio between the draft model versus the real model, and also, in your research, if you also find out like draft models, so you can draw. So are they located in the within the same machine, or are they in other machines? Yeah, great question. It's a very deep research question. Like we we think about this um for for a while, but um we haven't really done a conclusion. So yeah, if if you have a very lab, then so I think yeah, the real draft model um is like maybe actually the relationship that we uh is a lot of complexity to the system design, like as mentioned, we match the peak cache for the draft model, uh, and also match the peak cache for the actual model. Uh, and lastly, what's the size ratio, like how how much memory actually to the draft model, how much memory actually to the uh target model? Uh, you can just use uh uh use some use the formula to calculate, like the peak cache size is just like the number of layers times um number of tokens times number of heads times head. Yeah. So the size of the weight parameters of the draft model versus the model. Oh, I think the reason why we use the regular model or we use the small model are they like be in the linear relationship? No, it's not a linear relationship. So what we find is, if you increase the uh, if you use the regular model, say like um, let's say like a let's say like last three B and last seven
20 percent, so basically the ratio of 20 percent with doing anything with with with with with with all its chat with anything for it. So that's why MTP like all the operations where the graph model and the large model are just mostly follow the approach of the small model or the things. If I want to mention MTP, MTP has also have cubic cache. So yes, so so but but they are much smaller than the graph model. So yeah, so to all it is very hard to say like speed up wise, like especially when the traffic is slow, speed up wise, which MTP is not like because it's trained with a very um yeah, I'm not saying like they equal or comparable, it's hard to say equal or not, which has more speed up. But MTP in general is better, that's what we find because it's trained with a model and it's it's not heavy. Yeah. So yeah, so if the model is is with MTP, definitely not. Yeah. If any other questions, all the end of the day. Thanks for the talk. So we mentioned the embeddings are speculative, are measured, are not all as far as I see on the VM. So the embeddings are running purely on the CPU side. So do you think there any way to uh use the GPU to because we see that we we may run some elements to uh locate the longer prefix, are longer longer suffixes, common prefixes, uh during the environment lookup. Okay, if you have if you have a fast GPU implementation, you know, I would say yeah, but we we made that design um on purpose, so because we we even the the the most um like classical uh KMP algorithm to do the string, and so that's why um we find that that's not very easy to to run on a GPU. So basically, we just use numpy, yeah, numpy, yeah, numpy to implement this, and we yeah, we we kind of simplify for a very quickly, and eventually we find that the performance in our local yeah, already okay with it. It's say less than like five percent time. So so that's why we implement it too because we think that work like string matching may be not very CPU friendly, but if you can have a fast GPU implementation like a super fast string matching kernel, uh, then we are very happy to check out. Yeah, and also like this, like work pretty. So basically, if your
Or, for reasoning like this, for uh, for this, for
Yeah, but but but this I want to add on this. So actually, there is one area in the current model. So basically, that when you implement speculative, um, do how do you get the most token from the draft model? Do you do attacks? Do always choose the most likely token? Or do you like do sampling? Do sample from the sample from the draft model? And actually, that how we found that sampling token with the better acceptance rate, especially when when temperature is high. So if if if you do greedy calling, you should attacks. You should just get the most likely token from the draft model. But if the temperature is zero point five, uh, or temperature is one, you should also do the sampling on the draft model and implement like, like, uh, strictly follow the paper, like do like rejection sampling, um, to accept tokens. So I would say also depends on the temperature. Yeah, check out that, yeah, yeah. Um, my question, um, first one is for the very important, um, my question is, I'm really interested on engineering approach, um, for speculative, um, during your experiments, um, do you see any the variation on, uh, training online, training, training, uh, inference, inference? Yes. So that's what we mentioned within the engineering, uh, within the engineering effort to make it real. So I think the main thing there is, um, the engineering effort. So basically, because in case you are serving one draft model, you are serving multiple draft models, or and you are even one draft model, but you are serving another model. So basically, um, yeah, and also if you need to update the draft model, you need you need the backward pass. You you are not only running the forward pass to inference, also you do do the backward pass. So you kind of need training framework, like all of like those kind of things to support this. So how to implement in the most, um, efficient way, like, are they use systems or are are is it one system that can do both inference and training? I think those are like, um, yeah, within it within engineering effort. So I I would say like system challenge, system complex. Yeah. By the way, just want to add that for speculative calling, like the, it's it's it's it's a little bit controversial that if the temperature equals zero, which means it's fully deterministic
Yeah, if any other questions from the audience? Quick question: speaking about another research on the topic, security, training on possible multi-layered models. Say like, which one could be more robust? One, two, one, four. Uh, is yeah, I I'm not I understand like the setup. Yeah, very very very important. Security is possible to have multiple layers of models to multiple say one and two and two and one. Is like that. Oh, you are saying like higher, like uh, like higher level, like uh, not a small model, a small model, a middle model, a large model, and a small and a small model is actually a middle or a middle model, like security. Yeah, there is there is yeah. So from them, they have like this. So instead of one small model, one large, or they have some middle, like multiple layers, yeah, higher. And this is sorry, yeah, very important. Security, sorry, yeah, yeah, security. No, it's very so. So, like I was saying, multiple models is challenging. I like especially in the case of all the models, how to couple them, like couple with like different challenges. So I think the system complexity. I don't think it's yeah. If any other questions from the audience? Okay, I guess we are here. Yeah, thanks once again for her great talk. Okay, let me change the time. Okay, yeah, yeah, maybe we can talk about some like uh uh interesting news. So basically, uh uh, in our livestream recently, we are doing the livestream, uh um um. Yeah, I know. Yeah, I know. And uh, so basically we have like a regular cadence of like summarizing the weekly news in the AI AI infrastructure. Uh, it's it's just uh our personal view of the news. So it's uh probably has a core set of news, but the few which uh are. It's it's it's kind of like valuable insight for you guys to just like treat as the like entertainment, yeah. So uh, then then then I'm going to show you the top ten open source models, and it's providing a arena, a previous channel arena. So basically, it's like one of the largest uh open source model evaluation platform. So here, the uh is like kind of like has authority of like the popular, reflects the popularity of the models, and
Okay, so at least open source wise, at least we are waiting a lot. Very, very interesting. Yeah. Okay, okay. So one of the first use we have, the, I also we support we that animal is supporting our our open source project, cache. So this is a media animal is like serving framework that is kind of like allows you to deploy large models inside a cluster, and now is supporting cache as one of the choice solutions for using all of the KV caches into the storage devices like CPU like this, and this is only CPU this computer. Probably you can, the probably you can prolong the animal just realizing KV cache are more and more important space because more and more models are being trained and the more and more they are generating huge amounts of KV cache that could be reused later, but not being too expensive. So that's why people want to store the KV cache in other storage mediums like CPU probably CPU now you also want to put it into even remote storage. So right now we are covering so I want to use this KV caching layer, the KV cache VM. We we have some similar name, but what we are doing is having we want to support having using inside serving and serving stack to support more and more models and and some probably in the future. So that everyone we can serving use we can reuse the KV cache from everywhere. So that's that's the animal story here. Yeah. Okay, and yeah, and this basically media is our project. Yes. Yeah. Next. Okay, and I guess that's all the product news I'm for. I don't think there's like. Okay, we have more one research news. Let's let's cover let's cover the news. Yeah, sorry that I I'm also one of the media audience one of the computer stuff. Yeah, so basically DC always training is using VM as the training as inference wherever for their R training, and this is probably the nature. Yeah. So VM is like kind of like direct KV nature application. Nice. And we we we do have a new VM as well. We do. Okay, that's balance. Okay, that's balance. Yeah, yeah. Just balance. Uh, as we are open streaming, so basically, as I have released that information for their inference and yeah, the the like check is very fast as you all as you all know. So next one is that we are going to have for CPU as well. Yeah. Actually, I'm very curious
