For the first time in decades, the next generation of Americans may be poorer than their parents. Seems like you work harder to make less money. Seventy-two percent of Americans think the American dream is beyond our reach. Is the American dream dead? This dream has been in decline for decades. This billionaire is betting it's alive. You, my friend, will either lose or at least like to succeed. No one thought I would ever make it. I went from red to rich, but it wasn't luck. Thirty years ago, Glen Sturms started with nothing and built a billion-dollar lending company, one of the largest in the country. But how have the times changed? This is principles that got me rich, or how I'm going to get rich again? Talk is cheap, right? I'm going to prove it. Glen is betting a million dollars of his own money that he can take a hundred bucks and grow it into a million-dollar business in just ninety days. But I understand that I get treated differently because I'm wealthy. While for most people, the deck is stacked against them, so to keep this experiment fair, I'm going to do it all under cover. I want just my name, my money, and my connections. I'll go to a city where I don't know a soul and I'll start from the bottom with only a hundred bucks, a cell phone, with no contacts, and an old pickup truck. I'm going to work with locals to build this up because I know I can't do it alone. In or out, sounds like I'm going to be on the line again. I know it's not going to be easy. Too old, but I've never been afraid of hard work. Man, on my way. At the end of the ninety days, Glen's business will be independently of Valleyway. If it's any short of a million, I'll put one million dollars into it. Win or lose, the people who help me get there will be rewarded, but they don't know it. With a million dollars of his own money on the line, Glen Sturms will see once and for all if the dream is still possible in America. My name is Glen Sturms, and with hard work, I'm making money. Not because I want to be just it. If you had told me when I was growing up that this would be my life, I would have never believed you. I was born to alcoholic parents, diagnosed dys
Glenn has begun the journey, but he has no idea where he's going. He's wagering he can start a million-dollar business anywhere in America. Take them wherever they want to go, yes, sir. It still hasn't really sunk in because I'm still in the middle of a lot of fancy things. All right, here we go. Getting a little nervous now. If you're going to start a company, it could take anywhere from six months to a year or more. But since I only have 90 days, I need to identify a need in the market and then scale the company up incredibly fast. I don't know where I'm going, but there's opportunity everywhere. Where does it call up there? I don't know. Looks like we're landing in Pennsylvania. Going to be an adventure. Here we go. The clock is now started, and Glenn has 90 days to build a million-dollar business in Erie, Pennsylvania. You can't build a business on survival as your full-time job. You got to cover the basics first before you can build anything bigger. So I need to look around Erie and figure out what it costs to survive here. I'm going to have to be very smart about where I spend my money. If I spend it all in shelter, then I'm screwed. So I've got to be very efficient and look at clever ways of being able to put a roof over my head. A city of 97,000 people located in the northwestern part of Pennsylvania. Erie is in between Cleveland, Buffalo, and Pittsburgh. The first thing that strikes me is to see the power of what used to be right the remnants of an industrial city that had so much life. It won the All-American City Award in 1972, but with the outsourcing of American manufacturing, it's seen a steady decline in population as job providers and families scattered to make do elsewhere. Down in Erie, rebuilding Erie will be a marathon and not a sprint. I think I'm going to pull over and figure out what it's going to take me to live. You know, all the surrounding cities are a lot more expensive than Erie. What it looks like is I'm going to need about $1,100 to cover my rent, gas, and food per month, and I've got three months, so really my total is $3,300. So that's going to be the goal for my first week. I
This might be my bed for the night. I have a hundred bucks. I can find a hotel, but I'm going to use up half my money, probably at least. I've got a nice bed right here, so it's big. But I don't have any time to waste here. There's a place in that right now for anything that I can do with my truck. I mean, from scrap metal removal, to cleaning out services—you know, shoot, I mean, all clean houses, anything doesn't matter to me. It's just like fishing. The more lines you have in the water, the better chance you have of getting a hit. Eighty-nine more days. I reached the bottom quickly, and I'm going to claw my way back up. Sleeping on cars, so I've got to figure it out today, because I can't do this forever. I'm going to focus this week on coming up with thirty-three hundred dollars so that I can cover my living expenses for the next three months. Every minute that I'm focused on survival is really a minute that I'm not focused on the business. Recognize your strengths and weaknesses. There are a lot of high-paying hourly jobs here, and I'm not even remotely qualified. Manufacturing jobs require some real skill that I don't have, but I am a salesman. I've been my whole life. It would be great to get any job at this point, but if I'm going to get out of survival mode fast, my best bet is to find something to sell. Look at all these abandoned buildings. I mean, there's just great materials left on the side of the road, or even in scrapyards, and some of them are still worth money. So if I can find discarded items, I can potentially flip them for a lot of money. I've got to find my buyer. One of the principles of my whole life is find your buyer first. The rest will fall in place. So there's people out there looking for rod iron fencing, military-grade tires. Some buyers they'll pay four to five hundred dollars a pop for them. Find your buyer first, and work backwards, based on what they want. Most people do it wrong. They create a product, and then they go looking for someone to sell it to. Lineing up the sale first is often the difference between not coming out of these and jump. One man's trash is another man's treasure. You know this, Sammy. And I'm
Try. I have been sitting through all this job all day. Feel pretty filthy. That's it, man. I used to sleep in it. Try. So, you know, nice shower with a real bed could really do me some good. I've been looking online for the cheapest motel. Where I'm hoping that the owner will let me do some work and I won't have to pay for the room. Okay, do for you? Yeah, seven room tonight, and it's fifty-one. Fifty-one dollars. Okay. Will you take care of this now? Uh, yeah, I will. Um, is there um do any work to do? Like, could I work and and help yours or anything like that? Right now, I don't have. I'm more like a one-man crew. You know, I have another gentleman that helps me, and I got my son here. Right. That's fifty-one. We'll do it at forty-five plus tax. Fifty-one. All right. So every dollar. Well, I had to pay full price for the room, but at least the cheapest room in town. I don't really have any time to go out trying to negotiate any one else. When you got a hundred dollars in your pocket, while thought that was very little, having thirty-eight dollars in your pocket is a lot less. Cold here. I still haven't gotten any responses to my posts or from myself about cleaning all the now garbage. I feel like I can make a lot of money relatively easy, but trying to make a hundred bucks or a thousand dollars is nearly impossible. Two days in, and I haven't made any money to cover my living expenses. However, this is not the time to give up. People miss out on a lot of opportunities when they panic and quit too early. I'm going to continue applying for every job I can find and look for things to sell. Very, very hot shower. Finally, we're starting our two days. I spent two thirds my money just on food and shelter here, but I found a listing for a commission-based gig. I need to head there now and check it out and see what it's all about. We're going to Erie Rubber Factory. They have a sales job, so maybe I can take that. I'm excited. John's the owner of the company, so I'm going to go in and meet him and see what he needs. Going? Are you going? Yeah, I'm John.
So we have different areas for different jobs. So, what do you make? All kinds of different parts. Automotive industry, yeah, steel industry, air pots, air valves. We make molds, and we pour metal in. So that's where it starts—the mold making process. And they get weights on them to make sure that the bottom and the top are pressed in real tight. Yeah, yeah. You don't want any metal to squirt out the side. The other side, we pour pour for a different alloy. Same with steel, the hot stuff. Pull these out. That's the aluminum. Mold around fifty or sixteen hundred degrees. Wow. Well, what do you what are you good at? Well, I'm good at sales. I'm not afraid to get my hands dirty. I don't have a, you know, real skill with heavy machinery or anything, but I mean, it's not just a place where you sell shoes. So, what kind of work do you need when you here? Yeah, at this time, we really don't have any spots. You know, I walked through the foundry, my goodness, it is a dangerous place to work. Obviously, I'm not one that as as worked that well with my hands in the past twenty five years, so I knew I was out of my element. Knew it was somewhere that could probably get me hurt. Are you eight dollars? Number one, thank you. Give it rest room. Can't even afford to fill up my truck. I got to regalize it to get me around the block. Still looking for those salvage items like duster tires, tires, fancy. I see a bunch of tires. It's good. Be promising. Yeah. Yeah. What am I looking for? Is it just too worn? Clothes. Yeah, clothes. And I came at this confident that I could take a hundred dollars and turn it into a million dollar business. And you know, I just didn't expect to lose every. You know, I've got to get creative here because I don't have any more money. So, I volunteer to soup kitchen that way. You know, I can work for a meal instead of just take one. Don't feel right. Take. So I reach out to one of them online, and they seem to be happy to have me. Just come on in and ask for Laura. Is Laura here? I'm Laura. Hi. Are you? How are you good
I've given my camera crew a cover story since they need to follow me. They're doing a documentary on the unemployed who quit their corporate job to start a business later in life. How you doing? I'm good. This looks good. How are you doing? Thanks a lot. How are you? Let's. More. There you go. This is all my documentary stuff. Going out and living the American dream, trying to make it on my own as a business owner, and starting it at 55 versus most people starting their careers. You know, I felt good for helping, and then I felt bad because I'm kind of living under the false pretense. You hungry? All right, let's give me a plate. There you go. You're welcome. I get it more and more. Why there's this big divide between those rich so-bes? These people are just thankful to have one meal. Are you? How we doing? We're doing terrific. All right. You're doing a good job. We're hired. How are you? Good. I'm hired. There you go. Pay isn't good. Pay isn't good. But the benefits, benefits are great. And then today we, alright. I go in for a hot meal. Thank you, dear. I come out really realizing that I've got my life so good, and I just don't know why we got it so good. You know, it makes me feel hopeful in the world. Don't feel guilty. No, I appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you too. It's a reminder that starting a business here isn't just about proving something; it could positively impact a lot of people if I do it right. Let's sleep my truck again, and you know, looks like this is a safe spot. This is rock hard. I'm working my way along this rail line, trying to find tires and rod iron that have been dumped. I'm starting to run out of rail and gas. It's uncomfortable, so I've lost 30 dollars to my name, but I know that I can find this. So these abandoned buildings are perfect places for people to throw away what they consider junk, and I'll take whatever I can get right now. You know. Lou. Hey, this is. This is. Hey, this is RJ. Hi, RJ. How are you? I'm good. How are you? I'm excellent. I got job
Hey, RJ. Len. Hey, RJ. How are you? Nice to meet you. Yeah, nice to meet you. Thanks for coming in. I'll thank you. Appreciate the love me to bring a couple friends along. Yeah, yeah, no, no worries, as long as you know they they don't get in the way. I was ready to turn around and run, you know, because it comes off as just a scary guy that's gonna kick your ass. We have a big St. Patrick's Day order coming up. You know, a little short staff right now, so you know you'll be helping out with those. So, do a quick tour. So you're on first, and then maybe you'll have you wash some screens today. Perfect. So, have you ever seen screen printing done? I have not. You got your press. This spins around as well. You put your shirts or whatever you're printing on. Then that thing over there is a conveyor dryer. Put the shirts through. That's what carries the ink into the shirts. I'll get you changed. Show how to do that, and I'm gonna kind of let you go for a little bit. Perfect. So, no pressure. These are polyester material. These are obviously a bit more expensive than just for customers, so. So, if you mess it up, it comes out. You're paying to. It works. Pretty good. Get the hang of it. Looks good. Got that. There we go. That's it. That works. That works. You just made me about eight dollars seventy three cents. There we go. Eight dollars seventy three cents. Like it first. That was. Spray it down a little bit. Say hello to my little friend. I'm good than me. You're good. I'm good. Looks pretty good about that. So, how long you had the store? So, we've been in this location for a little over two years now. You know, long story short, I worked full time for the city for seven, some years, and a couple years part time before that, and started a hobby, pulling a line right out of the house, came with a name and logo, made a couple shirts with three hundred bucks, and and just kept flipping it, flipping it, and doing more. You look at him and you get this like kind of me don't judge your book by its cover, and he's a great example
You know, cleaning houses wasn't above her. You know, I mean, there was nothing. There wasn't a job above my mom. It was my day for that matter. You know, they did whatever. You know, it's humbling, but I got paid, and we do what we need to do. Not believe him. Sleep in my truck again. You know, I've been noticing a lot of signs around town for St. Patty's Day celebrations. This may be a great opportunity for me to diversify my efforts. St. Patty's Day is a chance to diversify my efforts. I know there'll be a lot of drunk people that are going to want some green swag. If I buy a bunch of merchandise on St. Patty's Day at a discounted price, there'll be a huge margin on the resale. But I need someone who knows the city. Hello, RJ. Hey, what's up, buddy? Hey, how you doing? I see the big St. Patty's Day parade is coming up. There are so many people out there that need green in their life on that day. So I was thinking, you know, why not go out and take a run at selling it? You, you, you get your t-shirts. I'll get some St. Patty's Day swag. We'll make a team and go out and see what we can do. Yeah, I like that idea. I would appreciate having somebody that's real local and knows everybody. Yeah, it'll be fun. I think it'll be fun. So I have a discount on my St. Patty's Day shirts. I can definitely just let that sit on the counter. Are you ready to move? Cool. All right, looking forward to it. Thanks. I'll see you. All right, bye-bye. I could go out on my own and try to do this, but I don't know people. I don't have the ability to connect with people. Very since I'm brand new. But RJ, we're going to end up making it. Tomorrow is my day. So I just went and picked up a bunch of Irish swag. The best thing to do is buy St. Patty's Day stuff on St. Patty's Day. It was slashed so cheap. I got the big mileer blunts for sixty cents. I can sell those for five dollars a piece. Invest in one and one, buy low and sell high. But the reality
Oh my God! Yeah, that's going fine, bud. Hey, what are you thinking? We gotta get to the drunk people. So there's more going on down there. Maybe we can go to a bar. We'll sell everything at a bar. Yeah. Go. Tap into that herd mentality. Get in front of a group and sell them. If you can get just two people in that group to buy what you're selling, odds are the whole herd is going to follow. Let's go. We're going to make some money. Come on, find some people. What is what? They do. Come on. So RJ and I walk into the Bourbon Barrel. You want one of these? How you doing? And it just immediately, it just hit. What? Our first sale. Our first sale. Right, people are down there. They're in the festive mood. What do you got? We got a lot of bling, a lot of lights. All right. What do you got? What? Be, be, that's fine, bud. If it's you, I'm right at us. You know, it was just awesome. You know, and we sold out so quickly. What? Hey, that's just great. I'm trying to get it. I'm trying to get there. Hey, we're doing way better already. I mean, this guy RJ is so dedicated. He's so focused that he literally sold the shirt off his back. I mean, oh my God, he sold the shirt off his back. Can you believe that? Where is this? Started with forty bucks. That's not bad. I say it's a pretty successful night. St. Patty's Day, I earned some money, but the goal for the week was thirty-three hundred dollars, and I got about four hundred dollars in my pocket. And this is much harder than I ever thought it was going to be. This is going to actually change my entire plan for the next eighty-three days. I mean, I'm here to start a business, and I can't even afford to bed this. I think I was just cocky coming into this. I mean, just cocky. You know, I forgot how much struggle it is to get ahead. However, I have a goal. I'm not backing down. This is an undercover billionaire. What do you want me to get out of them? I need to flip bigger. The run's beautiful and bigger to
