How much are you sleeping? You know, I have never been someone who slept all that well. Let's just say I'm, you know, I'm learning the art of, you know, finding ways to relax and sleep through moments of unusual pressure. It is all moving so fast. How does it feel on the inside? It's this feeling of like the exponential, like you know, suppose you were to accelerate away from Earth on a spaceship at relativistic speed, the way special relativity works is, you know, you go, you go to sleep and you wake up and two days have gone by on Earth, and so you have to deal with two days in one day, and then you go to sleep and then because you continue to accelerate, three days have gone by on Earth, and then next day and four days have gone by, and that's a little bit what it feels like. I mean, do you go to bed constantly paranoid about what you'll wake up to? There are enough clear and present issues that we have to deal with that I'm constantly dealing with, those while thinking about how we can prepare. But you know, you know, I don't think of paranoid or worrying about what you'll wake up to is productive. You know, I've looked at people in history who you know who've dealt with these very high-pressure situations, and you know, you need to learn to respond rationally and and not put dangerous out of proportion to each other. This yo-yoing between not worrying and oh my God, we need to panic today, I I I think that's a hallmark of immature decision making. The actual mature decision making is can't ignore this, we can't be complacent in fact, getting to be a bigger and bigger risk. But you know, we we have to respond rationally. You know, like like a surgeon would deal with an operation, or you know, like a military officer would you know deal with a military operation, or you know, someone making decisions that affects a lot of people has to make those decisions rationally and they have to understand the risk, but they they you know they have to maintain a basic sense of calm. So my son yesterday was like, can I use your cloud cowork account? No, it's like absolutely not. I need my tokens. We're seeing more and more of them even in the consumer space. We want to be more of an enterprise company, but you know, it's even even
You know, here in the world, you should go and pursue it. Maybe it just won't work at all. But but if it does, there's this kind of long tailness to it where you know there are certain places you can you know you can you can search certain veins of work where you know you might you might find a huge gold mine there. I think that spirit is very important. You Danielle, your sister, and her husband, Holden Karnofsky, lived in a group house together back in 2016. What were you debating back then? That was, I think, the time when you know OpenFluent's project was was you know first being started, which Holden was the lead. And I was at that time, you know, like a biological scientist, so you know I was helping them with some of the stuff they were doing around kind of developing world health or biological research. So you know I I kind of dived on that stuff. And you know what were the areas that were promising? What were the areas that were less promising? Your decision to leave OpenAI has become Silicon Valley lore. What really happened? Like beyond the narrative, what were the issues? What did you disagree on? Look, I'm going to say it. I'm going to say it very simply. You know there are many difficult issues that you know you face when you're building powerful technology. That EnTropic faces every day where we don't know whether we're making the right decision or the wrong decision. So you know there are many valid disagreements to be had on safety. We certainly had some of those disagreements with them. But you know people that that that that alone is not sufficient to leave. People here have had disagreements with me. People here have disagreements with each other. But when you feel that you can't trust someone, when you feel that their values are not what they say they are, when you feel that they're not honest, when you feel that they're not in it for the reasons that they say, when you see disturbing patterns of behavior dishonesty, that makes it very hard to you know to continue to work with the company, to continue to trust the company. And look at the end of the day, why argue with someone when you don't have the same vision and you don't trust them? Like the way the the way to resolve it is you go off and do your thing, they go off and do their thing, and I am
AlphaFold, we're trying to do something in bio as well, right? We do interpretability research. They start interpretability research. It's not even competition; it's just, it's just, you know, each company does something cool, and other companies like that's cool. We like to, you know, do that too. And if there's something new within that, we can do. So that's the kind of, you know, the carrot side of the race. The top. Then there's the stick side, or the implicit stick, where like, okay, these guys are doing the right thing. Those guys look bad if they don't do the right thing. And often we see behaviors where they kind of grudgingly do the right thing while trying to pretend they're doing something different or something bad or sinister about us. That is to be expected. But I think that's the way we get the industry together, and that's the way we get the industry to cooperate. Now, early on, others focused on fun, flashy consumer apps. You made a bet on coding and enterprise, and Claude Code is a hit. Claude CoWork is a hit. Why did you make that bet? Was it a value decision or a business decision? We started in traffic. The thing that the the base thing that mattered, the thing that always matters, is we want we want to do this right. But then you have to ask yourself, okay, in order to fund the very expensive, you know, creation of these models, it needs to be a company that needs to have a business model. Does the business model get in the way of the values? There's always this question. But I think one of the things I learned is, you know, just from being in other companies and watching other companies, is look if you pick a business model that fundamentally conflicts with your values, you're going to have a hard time, right? Either you betray your own values or you become irrelevant. You know, you kind of end up in a catch twenty two situation, and there are ways out, there are ways to dodge, but it's just it's just a hard situation. It's far better to pick a business model that is compatible with your values. And so we thought about it. We said, look, you know, we've seen the world of social media, the consumer world. It it really seems to, you know, encourage engagement, even addiction. You know
No one knows exactly what's going to happen, but I would know a few things, right? All of these traditional software companies have a number of modes. I think what's going to happen is some of these modes are going to go away, but others are going to stay around, right? The ability to quickly write software, I definitely think that's going away, right? If if your mode is we wrote this complex software that no one else can write, like good luck, you're not going to be able to defend that. But I think folks have customer relationships. Folks have know-how of how you know how the field works. Folks have unique domain knowledge. So I think my advice to all of these folks is obviously you know don't be complacent, don't ignore it. Make a list of all your modes and be very aware that some of them are going to go away, while others are going to become relatively more important because of the new factors, and there may also there may also be new modes. And I think those that deftly respond, that you know lean into the list of modes that are still present as well as the new ones will do well. I think those that are complacent, that kind of you know just dilute themselves, that worked in the past will will continue to work. They're they're not going to have a good time. So that is that is the advice I would give. And you know, I I think at the end of the day, I would guess it depends what you call says and what you don't call says. But like I would guess that the software industry gets larger and not smaller. Although there will be some big losers. Explain that. I just think the pie is getting bigger, right? Like I think I think with AI, like the pie is getting bigger. The existing incumbents may be smaller in relative terms. Some of them may may go down in value. Some of them may even may even go out of business if they don't adapt in the right way. But I I you know I think you I think you see the software industry grow really fast, right? If the you know if if if what's possible with AI grows by tens, it's very easy for an existing incumbent industry to go up by one point five x, right? Just just you know not as much as the whole big pie is growing. So I think that may happen. That that's not to say we won't have
So, you know, we were planning for a ten x a year growth in compute. Ten x a year is what we expect. That isn't what we've seen over the first quarter of twenty twenty six. We saw a greater than three x growth in revenue quarterly, just in the quarter, not annualized. Three x in the quarter, which of course, three to the fourth power is eighty x over the course of the year. We didn't plan for eighty x annualized growth. It would not have been rational to plan for eighty x annualized growth because that means if you only get ten x, you know that you you have eight times less. So we're we're we're in a locally extreme, you know, explosion of compute. That's not going to continue. If that continues, you know, you just get the revenue by the end of the year, you get your revenue numbers at no company on earth. I don't think that's going to happen. It just it just can't. But you can have these short periods where it's like, oh my god, like you know, this is faster growth than we ever ever possibly anticipated. But I don't know. You saw the compute deals with Google. You saw the compute deals with Amazon. You know, there are more that we kind of can and will do. Like you know, the market liquid. Like if if if you know if you're able to use compute really well and there's the demand, you'll get your compute. Might might just take a month or two. Does it feel good to surpass your arch rival? Look, I we have a lot of difficult challenges in front of us. There's this race to the top idea that we're trying to pull other companies along with us, and I think we've seen that we have pulled them along with us. Sometimes they don't admit that's what they're doing. Sometimes they copy us while they're attacking us. But but this pull is very valuable, and so I think the value of being the premier company, both commercially and in terms of models, you know, it's it's not about being rivals for the sake of being rivals. It's it's about having the ability to pull the ecosystem along with us, and we hope that we can do more of that in the future. Winning has to feel just a little bit good. I mean, look, we're always trying to succeed, right? Like we're always trying to, you
Occasions, couldn't I? Yeah, actually, where Claude knows a medical problem that you know a bunch of fancy doctors had missed, and on the biology side, like the models are starting to get surprisingly good at, like you know, you know tasks like drug design or you know, computational chemistry or things. And I'm just like, wow, you know, as someone who used to be a biologist, I look at it and I'm like, wow, that's hard. Like you need a lot of training to do that, like quality getting good at. And actually, where I think we're going to get a hell of a lot of benefit, like that's the positive for AI. We're going to get these huge enormous benefits. Life is going to get better. The quality of human experience is going to get better. A century of scientific progress. A century of scientific progress and a century of progress in what it's like to be human. Like go back to 1900. Think of all the problems we had in 1900. All the reasons people died prematurely. All the problems they had to suffer. All the material deprivation that we don't have to deal with today. Then think of another hundred years of that. I really believe this century of scientific medical progress. If we can get through this, and I think we will, increasingly optimistic, we're going to have a much much better world. I know how much you love writing. You're known for your essays. Do you use Claude to help write? I do. I have not gotten to the point where I actually outtext directly written by Claude, in because I I just have such a specific style that I'm a little picky about it. But I basically use Claude to like you know to help me brainstorm, to help me think through the themes, to help me kind of oh you know what are some references I could use for this. So it it kind of plays a supportive role. I don't know how far we are from Claude being able to write better than me. We're not quite there yet, but but you know I think I think certainly it's coming. I love writing too, and I you know I feel like writing it helps you struggle through ideas. There is a lot of critical thinking involved in that. Do we lose that if we let Claude do it for us? I'm I'm a little worried about that. In fact, that's half the reason I
Now AI makes software engineers more productive. Even though AI writes all the code or most of the code, but still makes people more productive. But we're already starting to see the beginning of, like, you know, there may be some people that it's it's not making more productive. That it's better for the AI to just to just do the thing. So that's one side of it. The other side of it, though, is what do we need more demand for? You know, there's something we call for deploy engineer or like applied AI solutions architect, where their job is a mix of technical work and talking to customers. There's a lot of demand for that because there's a lot of customers and we're growing very quickly. Now, does every person who is in the pure software engineering work for that? This is not, you know, it's not perfect. It's not one to one. That gives you a flavor of there's going to be a hell of a lot of disruption, but things will also adjust, which we don't. I don't know, but the reason it's important to warn about it is that that's how we can respond. That's how we can make policy right both within and robotic and accurately for the whole world. We want to put out carefully considered thoughts. We don't want to say things that people don't believe actually do. We don't want to say things that are half baked. We want to think carefully about what should actually be done about these these problems. You put out this chart showing potential job disruption, like sales, finance, you know, which jobs go away, who gets replaced, and what new jobs are created. So no one knows for sure because you know the economy is unpredictable, it's the same as the stock market, right? There are these kind of decentralized processes that you you don't really know ahead of time what are the pieces of the job that people are still going to be able to do. But what I would say broadly is that you know anywhere that you have you know these kind of entry level like, you know, whether it's banking, whether it's finance, whether it's you know there's there's you know there's there's going to be a lot of potential for AI to first make people more productive, but you know then then then there's going to be you know then there's going to be a wholesale AI can do the job, and then we're going to have to
I mean, we haven't fully fleshed out the ideas because I want to get them right. But, and Dropbox has come up with lots of ideas. We had economic grants. We have the economic index. I talk about the the possible ways to address these risks from tax and macroeconomic policy to what the new jobs are in the adolescence of technology. I lay out, you know, I have like five pages where I lay out the difference between tax and jobs. Why this time is different than other times? A list of six different things we can do from private philanthropy to government action. I talk about the problems. I talk about the solutions. But social media, which I detest, which I detest as a category, people have these three-second clips from, you know, from a year ago. They don't actually read the essays, or they prey on the idea that social media. I've I've written much more carefully about these things. Where Where I talk about the risks, the idea that this is marketing is it self marketing? This is this is laziness. This is failure to engage with serious intellectual work. Um, and and I think that is part of the problem again. I think it's it's part of the disease of Silicon Valley. It's been caught up in this social media world of of of three seconds, and so people only respond to it, or they think they only have to respond to it. Again, I think it's very dangerous, and we fail to have much conversation. Instead, people just lazily see this like three-second clip, and and they're like, oh, this is what Darrell was saying. It's it's so stupid. It's so unserious. And whenever someone says something like that, I take them less seriously. One of the leading AI companies in the world is deeply embedded in many different aspects of U.S. national security across military operations. Standoff between Anthropic and the Pentagon over AI military safeguards is ramping up. You've had a long-standing anti-war stance dating all the way back to your days at Caltech, and yet you were one of the first AI companies to sign a contract with the Department of Defense to operate on classified networks that the U.S. uses to fight wars. Explain that. Yeah, so you know what I would say is is look. I mean, the world the world changes. Like, you know, my my view of this technology. You know, when I see
Reliable, unreliable. We don't understand the ways in which promote our values, underline our values, and so one of the things that I thought was important was to establish a precedent on some of the some of the use cases we think are good, which frankly is most of them, and some of the use cases that we're concerned about. And as I've said, we've already seen you know you can only do so much with a contract. As we've seen, someone else can sign a contract that doesn't respect your your same red lines. But what it has done is raised awareness for the issue, and then we have serious bipartisan effort in Congress attempting to ban some of the things that we're concerned about, and attempting to set guardrails again. I don't want to talk about this as fight, but that kind of winning the effort to get our country to think more carefully about what is a proper use of this technology. And Trump is run by an ideological lunatic. Who shouldn't have a so my question my question is a decision making power. Do you mind being called an ideological lunatic or a bunch of left wing nuts? You know, I've been called worse things than that all the time. You know, people people can call me a rentronic. You know, people can call me a rentronic, whatever they want. The two things that matter are successful as a company, and you know, we stand up for our values. Like I actually, in some ways, my life is really easy because when those are your you know, those are the two things you're trying to do. It's it's really simple, right? Like you know, you just you always know where you stand. A U.S. official has said, with the help of LLM, the U.S. military has gone from being able to hit thousand targets a day to five thousand targets a day. That means Claude can help kill more people more quickly. Are you comfortable with that? I think there's two things here, right? There is there is the ability of the United States, you know, to be more effective militarily. I I I am supportive of that ability. I think having that ability be stronger doesn't cause wars, it turns wars. Like you know, basically, you're asking, like you know, do you believe in this country? Right? Do you want this country to be a more powerful actor rather than the less powerful actor on the world stage
But someone else's AI model, the AI model just makes a decision, and the human never sees it. That's what we were standing up for. That's what we were fighting against. I would, I would also say, you know, there's a separate thing here again. I don't think procurement is the right way to do it, but like, you know, we we we need to make sure that you know it's it's the matter of interest of American people, not me as a supplier of the technology, but to the American people that are military decision makers, don't make these mistakes that they operate reliably, that you know they choose wisely what to do again. You know, that's that's a concern to me as a as a you know as a citizen, as a supplier of the technology. Like, you know, the government uses uses Microsoft Excel a lot. You know, if I said Microsoft you use Excel for you know this military operation, but not you can't you can't realistically do that. But hopefully that gives you a sense of how we think about it. This school had a website you could found it in a Google search. Like, shouldn't Claude have spotted that? Shouldn't AI or whatever technology they used have spotted that? And it does it speak to a scarier issue about using technology as a shortcut in war? Look, look, what I'm what I'm you know what I'm going to say is you know and and I you know I I don't know this relies on you know maybe classified knowledge I don't have, but you know the principle that that we have established and I think the principle that was obeyed here is a human makes the human makes the final decision. I don't know what role Claude or any other AI had, but like if if this isn't an illustration why that principle is so important, I don't know what it is. Is AI warfare more likely to stop World War III, a war between the U. S. and China, or is it more likely to make it happen? I would say on balance it is more likely to stop it, but if we have no limits on how it's used, then I think you know it could be more likely to cause it. You've seen doctors train with right the premise of it was like you have a doomsday device that automatically fires nuclear weapons when it thinks nuclear weapons are being fired at it. What could go wrong? Right? Again, I
The models that other defenses that other companies have put in place suggest that these defenses are not strong enough yet, and that's what we're waiting for, getting the defenses to the point where we really have confidence in them. There was a lot of pushback on it. You know, you have researchers saying they were able to replicate it using, you know, cheaper open source models. Some folks say OpenAI, you know, has these capabilities already. You know, what do you say to folks who say this is a grand PR claim that could be replicated with open source models? That's just incredibly false. So the idea is, Mythos looks across the whole codebase and finds something. Some guy went on Twitter and said, "Well, if you find an open source model exactly the line of code that Mythos finds, then it finds the same issue. " That that that isn't the that isn't the problem. That isn't the question, right? Like that is not that is not the same thing. The ultimate test of this is like we go to companies, we go to open source repositories. We found two hundred seventy-one new vulnerabilities in Firefox. We found many thousands within the private, you know, companies. We haven't fixed them yet or can't disclose them yet. Like no one found those two hundred seventy-one vulnerabilities with the previous models. So like the actual workflow, what actually works in practice as opposed to, you know, okay, I find the exact line that Mythos found. You know, I found the needle in the haystack. Something else can now pick up the needle. But what about the folks who say this was just good marketing? You know, we have suffered enormously commercially from not releasing this model. This model has incredibly accelerated research within Anthropic and production in next models. It would do the same in the outside world if we were to release it. This has hurt us enormously commercially. If this helps defenders, it also helps attackers. Can we defend anything anymore? What I would say is that the reason that we're giving Mythos to defenders before we give it to attackers is to patch all the bugs. I don't know as the models get better, there may be more and more bugs to be found, but there's only so many they're finite, right? It's like you have this surface, and there's only so many holes in it. You patch all the holes, and the surface becomes very hard to attack. As well as the
Take you over? Why would they let a private company control technology that's so powerful? So I actually think that's a very that's a very serious question, and I share those concerns. I don't think the government should outright take us over, but I would put it this way: I would say just to back up and describe the situation. Every previous powerful technology we've seen in history was either built by the government or originated with the government. So nuclear weapons, obviously, you know, initially built by the government and pretty much built by the government after that. But even like the internet, GPS, cell phones, all that, indeed was you know was done in the labs and federal labs and the universities. AI is the first technology that's been built in the private sector, and where government has not really had a serious role and is coming in late to the game. I think that's actually a dangerous and unstable situation. It is not the situation I would have chosen. There's not really an alternative. Like you know, this technology is possible to build. Our adversaries are building it. It has economic value. Like it's it's going to get built. The the issue is the government not doing it, not the private sector doing it. I think we need to think about checks and balances on power. So I think there need to be checks and balances on the power of the AI companies, right? We have this thing called a long term benefit trust. What that is is it's a set of basically it's a body that can appoint the majority of board members, remove the majority of board members. So it basically, if you threaten it, they have the power to fire me. And what we're looking at is we're introducing some elements, you know, nowhere near all the elements, but we're introducing a little bit of the elements of like public governance, right? Where where it's like you know, you're accountable to someone who just doesn't doesn't just have stock stock in the company. So that's that's very important, and that structure is going to continue no matter what happens to the company. That's on the AI side. We encourage other companies to have similar structures. On the government side, I think we need checks and balances. You know, there are there efforts in Congress that have been announced to enact those red lines, right? So I really think the you know the legislative branch and the judicial branch needs to exert themselves because this technology, I
There's a thriving ecosystem. There are lots of challenges and problems that are much easier than you know the ones we need frontier models for. But again, it's exponential, right? Like it's possible that, like these far from frontier models, have economic value comparable to what we saw in twenty twenty three and twenty twenty four. But again, we have this ten x year growth, and and and so what what we find is that what's on the frontier is always much much larger than what is what is away from the frontier. I think this is something that people who are used to building products in the previous era don't quite understand, right? As someone who's coming, who you know, hadn't run a company before, who like you know has never thought about the previous product era, particularly the past the social media era, I feel like an outsider to that world, and I I feel that people's instincts are wrong. They have all these kind of product hieristics, and I think the ten x year model, exponential, really breaks that. Like intelligence is just such a huge factor that outweighs everything else, and so we're just seeing over and over again that you know the value is found on the frontier. Now, what I do worry about with some of these laguer models is the risks of them. Where we have mythos class cyber capabilities, twelve months from now we'll have much better cyber capabilities, but the mythos class cyber capabilities may just be available for for anyone to uh to download. Now, hopefully, we'll patch everything before then. I don't think there's anything we can do to stop it, but I think it's a serious concern. Did what you saw by do your review on China? Not really, no. Um, I worked there for I worked there for a year. You know, I think I probably learned more about like speech, uh, speech recognition, and you know, all all all of that. Maybe the only thing that concerned me was you know part of how we got all the speech recognition data was you know they're like they said ominously, we don't care about privacy in China, so we have all this this speech recognition data. I think we have an opportunity for AI to be a pro democracy technology. You know that kind of makes people fear that the liberals on the promise of equal justice for all, or it could go the other way, and and which way it goes depends on the actions of the AI companies,
You know the the actions that we have taken lower that probability rather than increasing it. Right, that probability comes from the the you know the very straightforward recipe of the technology, the existence of many countries in the world, the existence of many companies within the economy, and new ones created. If the void isn't filled, like that's the dilemma that we're in. We are trying to act lower that probability. I think we lower it a lot more than we raise it. But you know the inherent property of this technology is that it's unpredictable. And so you know we try to build something and test it a lot before it's released. And then the models that were released today are not dangerous, at least not you know really anything dangerous outside of cyber. And then we try and iterate and learn from that. So there's like a zillion defense mechanisms. You know half of what we do within the company is trying you know reduce the risk as much as we can. But you know it's it's never going to be zero. I guess what I would say is you know suppose there are a bunch of like you know airline companies out there, and you're like, well I'm going to make an airline company that's safer. It can both be the case that you know your airline company is ten times safer than all the other airline companies. But you know if if someone comes and asks you like can you guarantee that your airplane will never crash? I mean how could you how could you possibly? But if there was a 25 percent chance of an airplane crashing, you wouldn't get on that plane. That's right, 25 percent is too high. We're trying to make that probability much much lower. That is the goal. You are building something incredibly powerful and stand to gain enormously from it. Why should we trust you? My view of this is actually when any company starts out, and and particularly you know what we've seen with the behavior of of just Silicon Valley as an entity, its its thinking over the last couple years. I think starting from a position of distrust, you know if you don't know anything about me, if you don't anything about it, but it's pretty rational. I think Silicon Valley has lost a lot of the world's trust and kind of has to earn it. And the message you know we're trying to send is we're actually different, and and that has to be earned in things that we actually do. You can agree or
