Humans, at least in this part of the world, were read into a way of living that was so different from how the other gatherer ancestors lived that the organism had to adapt very strongly. Maybe the degree of that reading process moving into the Bronze Age was qualitatively greater than the degree of the reading process that happened from the initial transition to growing plants, which is surprising because our cartoon picture is that the big transition is farming, but the genetic data, the biological readout, is saying our genomes reacting much more strongly to these events that happened 5,000 years ago. I am back, who is David Reich, who is a professor of ancient DNA at Harvard. How do you describe what it is that you you study? I'm a geneticist, and I work on human history and how people relate, ancient people relating to modern people living today. Great, and so we did an interview. What's it? Two years ago at this point, which ended up being one of the most popular interviews ever done. I think people just found really compelling that there's so much about human history we don't know, and are just learning about now as a result of the kind of techniques that you're lab is using. And you have a new preprint. That's very exciting, and I want to talk to you about it. So let's begin. Can you can you tell give me a little bit of context on where we're at today? Well, well, the dream was that when the field started, the ancient DNA field started more than 16, 17 years ago, that we were going to learn a lot about biology, learn about how people's biology changed over time by getting DNA out of ancient human remains and tracking changes over time. And that dream has really not been realized since the beginning of the field. So while the field's been a big success with regard to learning about human history, its resulted in surprising findings about human migrations, people not being descended from the people living the same place hundreds of thousands or tens of thousands of years before, and mixture being common in human history, sex bias processes being common in human history, and things that were not expected from biology. And so the field's been a big success from that perspective. But what's not been successful is learning about biology and biological change. And one big reason for that has been that the sample sizes have been too small. So when you have single person DNA, it provides a tremendous amount of
Very hard to detect slight shifts in frequency by a few percent or ten percent unless you have very, very big sample size. And so, what we're looking for are those changes in frequency that are too extreme to be due to chance. And that tells us that there have been pushes in against the biology as a result of the changes in environment that people have experienced. Okay, so what did you guys find? So seven years ago, Aliakbari, who is a at the time was a postdoctoral scientist in my laboratory, and a few years later became a permanent staff scientist in my laboratory, set out to use the data that we were producing to learn about biological change over time. And I think the reason he was interested in our laboratory rather than other places was that a focus of our laboratory has been generating truly large amounts of data from humans who've been really trying to industrialize the process, make it very inexpensive, make it high quality, and generate large numbers of samples with lots of data for this purpose. So t here is been this large amount of data that we've generated, and it made it possible to conceive again of asking the question about whether t here is been frequency changes over time. So the mainstream view in human evolution in the last several decades has been that natural selection has been pretty quiescent over the last several hundred thousand of years of human history, and t here is several lines of evidence that have been deployed to document this. One is that if you compare diverse populations from different continents around the world, for example, Europeans and East Asians, and you look at mutations that differ in frequency between these groups, all mutations differ a little bit in frequency. Sometimes a lot. You can say what are the most different mutations in terms of frequency between Europeans and East Asians, and t here is almost no genetic changes that are one hundred percent different in frequency between Europeans and East Asians. So Europeans and East Asians descend from a common ancestral population forty or fifty thousand years ago that came out of Africa in the Middle East. This population had set of gene frequencies, genetic frequencies, and these variants popped around randomly, process known as genetic drift, or perhaps selection in one direction or another. And the time that's passed since forty or fifty thousand years ago is sufficiently small on an evolutionary timescale that t here is just not much genetic differentiation enough between these two groups, Europeans and East Asians. But however, if t here is been natural selection, for example, to help people in one place digest
And is due to some cultural phenomena, technology held by one of these groups, not others, and maybe there are genetic mutations that are contributing to this. Who knows? It's possible. But what you are seeing is a whole genome shift, and so what we're looking to see is whether there is one place in the DNA that is driving the change in a way that's different from the rest of the genome. And really, from a statistical point of view, what happens at these times of migration is there is just huge fluctuations in frequency, and these are extremely uninformative times for looking and detecting natural selection. The best moments to detect natural selection is when migrations and population mixture are not happening for a few hundred years, and during these times you can actually see the mutations slowly blowing in one direction as a result. Yeah. Really, the way we think about the history of Europe and the Middle East, and the way we think about it for the purpose of this study, is as an archipelago of little populations, space and time, each of which are pretty isolated from each other. So, a little population in Britain, isolated for a few hundred years, a little population in Hungary, isolated for a few hundred years, between big events of migration and mixture. And in each of those little experiments of nature, we can ask does this mutation slightly increase in frequency? Does that same mutation slightly increase in frequency? And if all the arrows point in the same direction, we win, and we're telling us that natural selection is occurring. So, for example, four thousand five hundred years ago in Europe, almost all mutations go through huge frequency changes, and that's not because of natural selection; it's because of the step migration from the step north of the Black and Caspian Sea, forty percent, fifty percent, eighty percent of the DNA becomes the amount of from steppe to forest, and their frequencies of mutations were different not because of selection necessarily, but just because they evolved in different places for thousands and tens of thousands of years. And then, if you look at the same populations, there is huge changes in frequency, and it's very what you need to do is see, oh, is natural selection explaining shift more than you would expect by chance. Okay, in this next section, David explains the nitty gritty of the methodology of this paper. It's obviously a bit technical, and I wanted to get some of the results first, so I moved that section to the end. If
Unlikely to be among the locations that you identified as under selection. Yeah, exactly right. So, so it might seem from the results of that analysis that in fact immune traits are highly selected, and there has been no selection for behavior in the last 10,000 years in this part of the world. But in fact, that's a wrong conclusion. And in fact, we have evidence that that's a wrong conclusion. And in fact, there is clear evidence of selection also on behavioral traits. And the reason we think we see and we have evidence that this so much weaker signals for behavioral traits is that behavioral traits we know from other studies, medical studies, are underpinned by much larger numbers of genes than immune traits, which are underpinned by relatively small numbers of genes of strong effect. Behavioral traits traits are shaped genetically by very large numbers of genes of weak effect, and we just don't have the statistical power to detect very weak signals there. So when we do analysis, where we look at our very strong signals of selection, that collection of very strong results is very effectively querying immune traits, but is not very effectively querying the behavioral traits. It may still be the case, and I guess it is, that immune traits are the most selected category, but is not always the case. In fact, we can prove it's not the case that behavioral traits are not selected. So we think there's two reasons why natural selection has we've been able to prove really that there's two reasons why how to reconcile the previous observations with new observations. Remember the previous observation is that is that natural selection seems to have been quiet over timescales of hundreds of thousands or many tens of thousands of years. Reason that you don't see 100 different frequency variants across Europeans and East Asians. So now we're seeing hundreds of positions that are rocketing up in frequency with selection rates 1% or more in a lot of cases. So 1% or more selection rates will mean that they'll be rapidly over periods of dozens of generations, and so over 1,500 to 2,000 generations, like you see separating Europeans and East Asians, you see many genetic variants that are 100 different frequency across populations. So we're able to show that this is explained by at least two factors. So one of them is that we actually in this part of the world, Europe and the Middle East, are in a period of accelerated natural selection.
Many, many of these positions in the DNA. We actually have an internet browser that you can look at called the Age of Browser that allows you to query these these million positions, see the trajectories of each position in the evidence selection. And one of the things that we see is that, well, for the most part, the signals of natural selection we detect are consistent with being constant. Natural selection over time. In a handful of them, we're able to see that there's been a reversal, or a radical change in natural selection, and very often occurs in the period between five thousand to two thousand years ago, which is the Bronze Age and the Iron Age period of rapid population growth and rapid move into intensive use of of of many technologies that were not used that way before. So, an example of this is the T two genetic variant that is a major risk factor for severe tuberculosis, which is the major infectious disease, the most important infectious disease killer in the world today. And if you look at this major risk factor for tuberculosis, this variant rockets up in frequency from eight or six thousand years ago to maybe nine or ten percent in this part of the world, and then it rockets down in frequency in the last three thousand years. In both cases, there's very clear evidence of natural selection. In the first case, to increase in frequency, and then in the next case, to decrease in frequency. And a possible reason for this may be the spread of tuberculosis may be because damage in the population two or three thousand years ago that potentially consistent with pathogenic sequence and other lines of evidence, and may be this variant was protecting against something before then, but then tuberculosis became significant after that point, and was so bad that pushed in the opposite direction. Speculative. Oh, interesting. And the thing was protecting against probably another disease. Maybe. One of the big takeaways for me from the paper was that something weird happened in the Bronze Age, and that, as you said, like across trade after trade, the selection intensified during the Bronze Age, and this makes sense for something. For example, why do we see lactase persistence, where it doesn't process milk? Why is that intensified in the period? Well, it makes sense. Is the time when we don't we start using cattle, not just for the meat, but then also for milk and wool and other secondary products. So it makes sense. Is why lactose or lactase persistence matters more. But there's other things which seem like
No, and then after that, it's much less. And so, this seems to be a very impactful, eventful, important period where a lot of the process is that we are seeing become very powerful. And it's surprising on first principle. You might think before you walk into this genetic data that the big change is going to be starting to grow plants. Yeah, and maybe farm animals. And that happens in the Neolithic, you know, beginning 11 or 12,000 years ago, and spread into Europe after 8,500 years ago. But actually, the intensification happens like 5,000 years ago, 4,000 years ago. And so, it's really interesting this this observation of that being a key point, that being an inflection point, tells us something about when humans, at least in this part of the world, were rent into a way of living that was so different from how their other ancestors lived that the organisms had to adapt very strongly. And that may be the degree that range process moving into the Bronze Age was qualitatively greater than the degree of the range process that happened from the initial transition to growing plants. So, which is surprising because our cartoon picture is that the big transition is farming, but the genetic data, the biological data, is saying our genomes reacting much more strongly to this these events that happened 5,000 years ago. So, you did some work with Botia and other colleagues in 2014. You were looking at 20 or 30,000 African American genomes today, and you were saying, "Look, there's some percentage, 80 percent West African DNA, and then 20 percent European DNA." And can we look at their genomes today, and do we see that their allele frequencies are much different than we would just expect from this admixture? And you find, correct me if I'm wrong, but you found that they were in that is to say that over 200, 300 years of extremely intense environment change, you know, going from you know, yeah, chattel slavery, and yeah, completely new environment. There's no effect of natural selection, and so we see episodes like this where we don't see natural selection, but then the Bronze Age apparently must have had an even stronger effect, where the change in environment is even stronger than what we see from Africans
Movement in a certain direction a large effect about a standard deviation on the scale of modern variation. Then we can do this trick of looking to see whether there is periods of time when natural selection has occurred more intensely or less intensely. What we do is we drag a two thousand year window through our data and we repeat our whole analysis not on eighteen thousand years but just on a short two thousand year window, and we can measure the strength of selection each of these two thousand year windows. And what you see when you look at intelligence is you see that this maxes out and narrows between five thousand, four thousand, three thousand, two thousand years ago, and the impact in the last two thousand years is almost nothing. There is no evidence of natural selection at all. You might think your bias coming into this might bias perhaps if there is any signal of natural selection on this trait at all might be that it would be unusually strong in the last two thousand years. Maybe this is a time of industrialization. Maybe this is a time of greater need for this particular trait. But in fact, there is no evidence of natural selection at all in the last two thousand years. But there is very strong evidence between two thousand and four thousand years ago, where instead of one standard deviation strength of selection is two standard deviation strength sort of average over this time period. And the standard deviation here is how much the polygenic score for the trait itself moves, or how much the polygenic score trait moves over ten thousand year period within a population that is held constant in terms of ancestry. Because what actually we're doing is we're looking in our dataset at a heterogeneous group of people. There is, you know, southern Europeans and northern Europeans and hunter gatherers and farmers and different times in the past. Those groups are more or less represented. So the whole strength of the methodology of how we develop is corrects for that change in ancestry over time. And as I mentioned before, really what's being asked here is we've divided up our whole dataset into an archipelago of little populations in different places in space and time, and we're asking in each place and space and time a little pocket of people in Britain from four thousand years ago to thirty five hundred years ago, a little pocket of people in Hungary, a little pocket of people in in Italy from two thousand years ago to fifteen hundred years ago. In each of these places, where the ancestry is relatively similar, without being too disrupted, natural period by migrations, we watch
Therefore, actually, the ancients were much smarter than us, and we've sort of evolved out of intelligence. And your result seemed to point in the opposite direction. That although there's not been a selection in the last few thousand years, is you know society's gotten more complicated. At least when society began, there was more need for the kind of thing that predicts intelligence today. And the reason that's surprising is if you think about hunter gatherers, um, reading your colleagues' recent textbook, the amount of information, the need to hold on to and assess everything from um how to process food to how to build shelters, fire, etc. Comparative my world, the way I got to like know how to set up my own question. It's just like it seems like the demand for intelligence is like way higher in the ancestral environment. It's very surprising that the beginnings of civilization increase the um the selection on intelligence, right? So you know this is the power of data, right? Like you know, I think though if you asked him prior to this work, what the hunter gatherer selection would be and where they're set point for, you know, this particular trait would be, and you know, I think he probably would have made very strong predictions, but he would have well maybe you would have expected to have a higher predicted value of this trait because these people were really having to do a lot of things and figure a lot of stuff out, maybe, and maybe once you have more complex societies, there'll be more of a collective brain, and maybe there'll be selection against the trait, and in fact, it's sort of the opposite in some ways. So it's the power of data; it's not what you expect, and you know after looking at this data, actually the value of data to try to make sense of all these things, you know, it's very interesting. Like the genetic predictor of intelligence, there's lots of kind of things that are confusing about it, so it's actually worth talking about. Or the genetic predictor of years of schooling, which is highly correlated to it, and is measured even better. So if you look at the genetic predictor of years of schooling, there's another amazing study from 2017 from Iceland that looked at this measure over the last hundred years in Iceland, looked at older people and looked at younger people, people born more recently in Iceland, and there's a estimated point one standard deviation decrease in genetic predictor of intelligence
In the same direction, one way or the other, and in different times in the past, it's it's advantageous or disadvantageous. But when we found this signal of years of schooling being increased, the the genetic propensity to go to school for more years as it manifests itself in people in white British people today, when we found this signal, we were sort of incredulous: like, how could this be? Maybe this is a problem. So we did a few tests to try to figure out whether this was real. And one of the tests we did is we looked for a study where this measurement of the number of years of school was done not in Europeans but was done in Chinese people in China, and we looked at variants that the effects sizes of many variants as they affect the number of years of schooling in China, and we saw whether they had a relationship, correlation, to the trajectory of those same genetic variants in Europeans over the last ten thousand years. So these are two parts of the world where the populations have been essentially completely disconnected, and there is no way by chance that the trajectory in Europeans over the last ten thousand years will have anything to do with the number of years the effect on years of schooling in China today. But there is actually a huge statistical correlation, a five or six standard deviation correlation between the effects size variants and number of years of schooling in China today, and the trajectory in Europe just as strongly as the effects size variants in Europeans to years of school to the trajectory in Europeans. So we just could not see how this could happen by chance, and once we saw that, we really felt quite convinced that this was a real signal, and really somehow there has been natural selection to increase the genetic changes that today manifest themselves as more years of school, predicting more years of schooling. Just to make sure I understand, you are saying you are, you know, you are looking at this ancient DNA in Europe and you are saying, well, it seems to predict years of schooling for modern people in Europe, or at least the selection on those ancient DNA and that ancient DNA seems to predict more years of schooling in modern Europe, and then you also find well, it also predicts how the same variants predict more years of schooling for Chinese people in China. Yeah, and so this is not just we are to far from the way these genes were done in Europe. This seems to these parts of the genome seem to robustly predict the kind of thing that actually is more years of schooling at least in
Yeah, exactly. But like, it's about strength or courage or religiosity or right; those are the values, right, or fewer humor or the other texts, other religions. It's not intelligence. It's it's beauty. It's like other other things, and so this values system which has a hyper focus on you know you know smarts is not obviously trait trait value that's been common in the past. You might think that in certain communities, like you know, some communities, not there might be valuation of things that are more proximate to you know years of schooling. But really broadly, it's not been high value in the population. But obviously, this thing we're referring to is not, or the thing we care about is not direct performance on IQ test. It's something in the past. The I think the thing I'm trying to understand better is this: is intelligence more broadly, and maybe just that IQ intelligence is not that correlated with humans in new world environment and go figure out how to process food there and make shelter and everything else. All the things which you're calling like Joseph Henrich talked about, like the how modern people underestimate the difficulty of doing this kind of thing with small band of people. Anyway, this is like maybe that's not IQ intelligence, and that's why we don't see that strong selection effect on this thing. But I just intuitively seems like, regardless of the values system, it just seems very valuable to have this trait maxed out. So I'm being very speculative. Yeah, and let me give you two examples about how about what this about in my head how I'm thinking about this, and not that I'm a particular authority on these things. But as I mentioned, a lot of these traits which are quite disparate or highly correlated each other: obesity, years of schooling, working days, you know, performance on IQ test, household wealth. All these crazy traits all seem to be governed to a substantial extent by shared common genetic variants. And let's just think about what this might mean. So in Iceland, in the last hundred years, there's been selection against this combination of variants, and one possible interpretation is it's basically selection for two ways of investing in your children: having many kids and not investing a lot in them, or having few kids and investing more in them. Right, so if you invest in differing differing having kids but becoming you know having more wealth, having more resources, and putting more into each kid
That you are communicating with his claim is that ancient texts show people behaving in this way, or you are being asked to believe in that. Yeah, exactly. You know, even today, I think you know there is value in some religious communities and you know communicating with God and having visions and having supernatural communions. Yeah, and so I just don't know. Yeah, but I think it's super interesting to imagine to ask the question why certain traits are not always advantageous. First, it's a pretty bipolar disease there is a sense in which most of the mutations are disadvantageous. We can see that from the patterns of variation, where the variants that are risk factors tend to be low frequency and tend to be small effects. So, another very interesting selection is the trend away from body fat. Yes, in the agricultural revolution, why is that? So, this is what you see as a reduction in the combination of genetic mutations that make you at risk for obesity, body mass index, and similarly, and very correlated to it, higher fat mass, higher waist to hip ratio, higher type two diabetes risk. And so, there is clear selection by about a standard deviation on the scale of modern variation for these traits reducing about ten thousand years in this part of the world. So, what can be going on there? Why was there not selection for this combination of traits before? There is a long-standing idea known as the thrifty genes hypothesis. The idea is that that once you have hunter-gatherer populations that move into a farming environment where there is plentiful food, there is no longer need to the same extent to be able to build body fat to survive in times of stress because there is more constant source of food. And so, as a result, there will be no there will be natural selection against body fat, which can be when you move into an agricultural environment into periods of food plenty. And so, maybe what you are seeing is that this group of people in Europe in the least of the last ten thousand years has moved into a period of relatively more stable food, where building up stores of fat are not advantageous, and t here is been selection against the combination of traits. Europeans actually are relatively better protected genetically against type two diabetes than some other populations around the world, like African Americans and Native Americans, that have perhaps not been exposed to agricultural for as much time. So, you may be seeing the effect of more exposure to more stable food accessibility. This is also another way in which the data
We don't have to worry about all of the same traits making their mutants just powerful. And we have lots of energy to spend. Same traits making their mutants just powerful. I guess we don't have to worry about that. But if intelligence is not the dominant trait under selection for humans over the last ten, twenty, hundred thousand years, does that mean that there is more room at the top for this trait? I think there is more room at the top for a lot of these traits. Yeah, I think that you can move high very extremely in one direction much more than it is to. You can move any of these traits very much more extreme. Other traits are probably very strong negatives to doing that. You're probably sacrificing other things. And I think that there is trade-offs probably, but I think it's highly likely that if natural selection was pushed pushed any of these traits in more one direction, it is the mean would move. So all of this evolution since out of Africa is acting on alleles that already exist in the pool of human variants from that first group which we were talking about last time, on the order of ten thousand people that you know explored out of out of Africa, and it's it. It's surprising that across all these different traits, from cognitive profiles to resistance to different kinds of diseases to high height to whatever that that one pool of people contains so much variation that they can supply the. You know enough. You know stretchiness to accommodate all these different traits that you're studying now. That's a rich question, and I think that the human population has, with for complex traits, tremendous amount of variation. So within the human population, there's a huge amount of variation in effect height. There's a huge amount of variation in effect body mass index. If you take all these mutations and all set them to the high height variant, a person will be extremely tall, like as tall as a tall building. Yeah, you know if of course which will never happen, but if you take all these variants that affect, it's a tremendous risk. They will and you point them all in the same direction. There will be extreme risk, extreme protection for it gets a tremendous. So for complex traits, ones underpinned by many mutations, all the variation already exists to move the population to a different adaptive set point that's optimal in the environment. Which is so, if you push the population into a new environment within hundreds of thousands of years, the population can rapidly move to
If the selection coefficient is less than that, it will be drowned in the random, popping around of frequency due to genetic drift. But that is already for a population of one thousand point one percent selection coefficient is very weak. We're talking about one percent effects, and that's very strong. It will work very well even in a population of size of thousand thousand. If you are talking about mutations of the type that will start rising and only in large populations, but not small populations, those are selection coefficients on the scale of one over ten thousand or one over one hundred thousand, and those ones will take ten thousand or one hundred thousand generations to rise in frequency, which is hundreds of thousands or millions of years. So that's not going to do anything over the timescale. We're talking about t here is just a timescale, so we're talking about strong measurable selection coefficients on the order of half a percent or more in this study, and all of those are going to work in small populations or large populations. It's not going to be affected by the population size. Interesting, but you are saying more generally, once you get a different size of population, the dominant factor is timespan, correct? Population size, correct? Okay, interesting. It's very interesting, and it's actually not widely understood. Yeah. Okay. Just speaking, um, data. Considering what you might have raised to, um, one of the papers you sent me beforehand, Malick twenty sixteen found that there are not fixed differences between modern and archaic humans fifty thousand years ago. Um, and of course, we know this is the period in which the so called cognitive revolution happened, and modernity started, and people making art or whatever. Does this suggest that something biological changed to make modern humans modern? Some the thing that happened was some cultural change. How do we understand what this data tells us? Right, fifty thousand years ago, or so, maybe hundred hundred thousand to fifty thousand years ago, there is a quickening of the pace of change in culture. So people used the first extensive representation art and like bead necklaces and drawings on the walls and so on and so forth, and also rapid increasing pace of innovation, the type of tools that people use. And so the thought might be that there was going to be happening some kind of genetic switch, a kind of important genetic change that was occurred in the population and that swept to high frequency that everybody suddenly had, soon had, and that made it possible
Late in this group, it would just it would sort of seem as, and I guess you're implying that well, if you just stack different, different different things across, you know, then stacking them up really has a big effect. But that, it's just thing that like we have so many different groups in the world today, and that all that diversity comes from very small populations. I think a lot of human genetics that the our population contains within the clay that need to make almost any trait, and that depending on environmental conditions or selection conditions, the mean value of these traits will move in different directions. There's an empirical question, a real question about how much selection there's been in different human populations over time. One of the things this new work that we're involved in is doing is showing that at least in the last 18, 000 years, 10, 000 years, 5, 000 years in this part of the world, there actually has been significant movement, at least for a handful of important traits. We looked at more than 500 traits, about 100 of them complex traits show significant movement and systematic trends over this period. So it really does seem that there is a response to the environment people are living in that is occurring over this period, is potentially stronger than in previous periods. We're talking earlier about there's no genetic differences between humans 50, 000 years ago and humans today. So there's no genetic basis for the kind of thing that allowed humans to have more symbolic representation, have farming, etc. I think we asked you this question last time we talked, but especially with this context, why no farming before the Ice Age? Genetically, there such an interesting question. Right, genetically, where the common ancestral population has all of the ingredients for farming 50, 000 years ago, and you know these people distributed in different parts of the world, the Americas, you know, 15, 000 years ago or whatever it is, you know, Neanderthals 40, 000 years ago, East, you know, Europe, you know, West Africa, no farming develops before you know 12 or 11, 000 years ago. It only develops in the last you know 12, 000 years, the period known as the Holocene, which is
Thousand years, and all of these people are capable of, you know, going to college, doing everything. So, you know, it's not obvious that all the toolkit, the cognitive toolkit, the behavioral toolkit, the genetic abilities were not all in place two or three hundred thousand years ago, and not even the Neanderthals had them. Right? So, it's not obvious that this was not the case. Yeah, and so, like, I just don't know. You start distributing these people descended from this first creation happened two hundred, three hundred thousand years ago to different parts of the world, and then, you know, after twelve thousand years ago, you start having agriculture popping up in different places. It's kind of outstanding history of human history, and you know, I find it unbelievable that we live in a place in time period that climate logically is so unique on a scale of two million years, but my colleagues tell me it's true. The climate seems surprising given there were so many different environments in which agriculture was independently developed. I now understand that across environments, the variants could have gone down, but just like it only happened in one place, one time, I could have a better explanation. But the fact that they're making maize in the new world and they've got, you know, cereals in the old world, and so forth, and just in very different environments makes it surprising. It's very, very surprising, and I think we accept it, but it's just like a crazy observation that most normal people don't realize. You know, the thing that basically everybody accepts is that the common ancestral population of almost everybody in the world except for reinforcers, undergathers, and coalitions is like around seven thousand years ago, and everybody accepts that these people all had in place the cognitive, behavioral, intellectual ingredients that are necessary for farming revolutions, state building, states societies. Because when these descendants of these people get distributed to West Africa, to East Africa, to the Americas, to Europe, to Southeast Asia, to New Guinea, and so on, they're descendants all do this like independently, or semi independently, or completely independently, or monstrously completely independently in all these different parts of the world. So, the cognitive resources for doing this must have all been in place for this very long fuse, like it delays for forty thousand years, for seventy, you know, sixty thousand years in all these different places after the common ancestral populations split up
Denyurup and the West Eurasians, Central Eurasians, and the Neanderthals. We have archaic sequences from these Denisovans, and we now have a skeleton for since we last talked. There's now a skull from the Denisovan, shown to be a Denisovan, and we have data from lots of modern humans. And there's really big mysteries about the relationships among these groups. So, genetically, the Denisovans and the Neanderthals are sisters; they descend from a common ancestral population five or six hundred thousand years ago. And that group descends a couple hundred thousand years before seven hundred thousand years ago from a common ancestor of modern humans. And so, genetically, the whole genome data says that Neanderthals and Denisovans are archaic humans from a common ancestral archaic population. But there's so many things shared between Neanderthals and modern humans that don't seem to be shared between with Denisovans. They both share Middle Stone Age stone tools level of technology, the cognitively unique type of way of making stone tools that wasn't used in East Asia. They both have the same mitochondrial DNA and Y chromosome sequence. So, the Y chromosome sequence of Neanderthals, the mitochondrial DNA of Neanderthals, is actually modern human that came through interbreeding two or three hundred thousand years ago and then showed up two hundred percent frequency. And then Neanderthals and modern humans are both the product of mixture events that happened between archaic and modern humans three hundred or two hundred thousand years ago, demonstrably through patterns of variation in ancient modern DNA. And so it feels that there's something shared between Neanderthals and modern humans that's not shared with Denisovans, even though the whole genome says that Denisovans and Neanderthals are related. So one wonders whether there's something connecting kind of Neanderthals and modern humans that differs from Denisovans, even though you know why Denisovans and Neanderthals cluster. So I'm thinking about that all the time now. And the connection would be interbreeding events or being in the same place at the same time that we missed. There's known interbreeding events from the lineage leading to modern humans into Neanderthals, but it's supposed to be only five percent. Yeah. So I'm interested in that that five percent is actually a sign of something much more impactful. That is that somehow Neanderth
So the standard model is one like this, where Denisovans, the archaic humans, were found to be ancient DNA and Neanderthals descend from a common ancestral population five or six hundred thousand years ago, and that these two separated earlier, maybe seven hundred to eight hundred thousand years ago, from the ancestors of modern humans, people like us. So that's the big result of a lot of studies since two thousand and ten. But there's also evidence of interbreeding events that happened maybe two hundred to three hundred thousand years ago, and that actually resulted in modern humans contributing DNA to the ancestors of Neanderthals. So this is maybe five percent of the DNA of Neanderthals coming from the interbreeding event, and a lot of studies have shown this. And so I'm very interested in this because actually, from the archaeological record, Neanderthals and modern humans sort of look actually quite similar to each other, much more similarity each other than in a lot of the end of Denisovans, the archaic humans in East Asia. So a lot of the history people thought that Neanderthals are sister, but in two but in two thousand and ten, this sequencing of the Denisovan genome made it very clear that Neanderthals are closer to Neanderthals than modern humans. So this was like a very confusing result, and most people now think that Neanderthals and Denisovans are like descend from a common ancestral population separated earlier from the ancestors of modern humans. So I'm interested in the possibility that actually the right way to think about Neanderthals is actually as somehow culturally modern humans, and even though that genetically they're mostly Denisovans, the modern thinking about is motivated by this archaeological phenomenon known as the Middle Stone Age revolution. So this is Africa, and this is I don't know Europe. We know that the new way of making stone tools with these cores that were very carefully mined far away from the locations they were used made out of high quality stone like flint, start being used here four hundred thousand years ago, first in the Caucasus places like Georgia and East Africa, and that this way of making stone tools, which is quite revolutionary, is known in Europe as the Middle Paleolithic, and after the Middle Stone Age, and is associated with much more widespread use of fire and also moving stone around much further distances than before. I'm interested in the idea that this is something that shared between Africa and between modern
A rising event. Somehow it's a cradle of findings and a whole iteration, so that we make ourselves believe this. But it seems sort of unlikely and unpredictable that somehow only five percent will introduce both the chromosome and mitochondrial DNA. It really looks like this. So there's this amazing data from this site in Spain that's like two to four hundred thousand years old. It's three to four hundred thousand years old. That's called Cimolus wayzus, and they have a nuclear genome that looks Neanderthal-like, most of the genome, but their mitochondrial DNA, chromosome is Denisovan-like. So it really looks like there was a population related to modern humans that pushed into this Cimolus wayzus-like population, displaced its mitochondrial DNA and chromosome, but kept the rest of its genome. So it really looks like something like this happened. So there, yeah, that I'm sort of playing with, and you know, probably it's wrong, no. But is that there's a landscape? This is maybe Europe, and you can break it up into hundreds or so little areas, and modern humans get introduced at one corner in the Middle East or something, and they spread into Europe. And as this population spreads, there's a wavefront expansion, and they're interacting with the local archaic humans. And even if there's a small amount of interbreeding, the theory from lots of studies, simulations, lots of studies of all these different species, like mammals and birds and so on, shows that there is when there's even a little amount of interbreeding, there's an invasion or movement or expansion of one group into the territory occupied by the other. There's massive interaction of local genes. There's that that these pioneers of the wavefront, they're sometimes interbreeding with local population. There's so many of them around that their DNA gets swamped by the local group. So by the time they make it to the other side, they're largely local. And so maybe what we're seeing is that this is what happens. You have like a modern human population that's not related, for example, where transmission of making stone tools this way is happening from your mother to the kid, and that's why they're retaining their mitochondrial DNA. But by the time they get to the other end of Europe, they're mostly archaic, mostly local archaic. So you end up with a 95 percent population replacement. So this would explain why
I wonder whether this is equally important for modern descendants. It also, if that's true, makes you think of the Neanderthals. Is actually somehow cousins that they're actually share a wide chromosome, share mitochondrial DNA, their shared formation of this two or three hundred thousand years old. And they're shared toolkit. So even though the genome is telling us that they're cousins of Neanderthals and Denisovans, the the actual correct way to think about them may be an important sense somehow the you know relations or the close cousins of modern humans. I have so many questions. Do you have any more? Yeah. First of all, what is going on with the global archaic Africans one point five million years ago? Where in Africa are they, and what happens to the portion that don't form modern humans? Did they survive? So they the genetic data suggests this analysis not of any ancient DNA, but only analysis of modern DNA from different people, mostly Africans and non-Africans, and multiple studies, at least three, maybe four or five studies that I know about, have looked at the patterns of variation in people today and say the data in modern people today, including Africans, is not consistent with homogeneous populations. It looks like a population split well more than a million years ago into multiple, at least two, but maybe many groups, and then came together with important coming together a few hundred thousand years ago. The papers have different models that they fit, but they all have this feature of more than a million years ago there is a split up, and on the order of a few hundred thousand years ago there is a coming together and a mixture of anciently ancestors of anatomically modern humans, and this includes the groups on and whatever groups. Okay, great. All of these groups have this. Maybe it's slightly different proportions. So you ask, where are these people living? Who knows? Right, like you know, in this scenario, the eighty percent is coming from the Caucasus or Northeast Africa. Where this Middle Stone Age forms from this population forms the Middle Stone Age, and they mix with like local groups, and who knows where they are? Southern Africa, Western Africa, Central Africa, Eastern Africa. We don't have any ancient DNA, but like you know, this is a very rich environment. People have been living there for like seven million years at least, and like there have been different groups of people everywhere. Probably it's not just two groups; it's probably
Like if you incorporate a local, if it's if it's matrilineal, when you incorporate male from the local community, they brought into the community and the kids are raised by based on the culture of the mothers or something, or if it's patrilineal, expanding it incorporates female from the community. It's incorporated raised with the culture of the fathers. So if that happens, the guarantee is one of these two parts of the genome to look like this, because it's a matrilineal expansion, if it's patrilineal, we'll retain the Y chromosome, if it's matrilineal, we'll retain the mitochondrial DNA. So we'll solve one of your two problems, but not both. It won't solve the other one. It needs to solve the other one. So the other one you can solve either by natural selection or you can solve it by social selection. So it's so by the way, patrilineality and matrilineality are the rule in the exception in human communities. Usually, communities of father have continued along with the female line, and usually it's patrilineality. Sometimes it's matrilineality. So you can also have phenomena like social selection. So so it could be that once you have kids of someone who is from the father, for example, is from the outside community, that those the male, usually most communities, females all reproduce. Like that's typical today. Like usually when men have kids, they can, but men in traditional societies are very variable in their reproductive success. A large fraction of men never have kids, and then there's a relatively smaller number. There's a subset of men have many kids, yeah, with many women, and so there's competition among men for kids. So in this context, where males are competing for access to females, then female choice begins to be an important process, and you have a phenomenon where it could be the case that, like, if your dad is an archaic male, then you're not going to be successful in the competition for local females if your dad is an archaic male. So a some simple social phenomenon like that could explain that, and we actually see this in human societies. For example, if I remember right, like in Central African forest gatherers, there's different treatment of boys and girls depending on whether their dad or mom is one group or the other. I guess in the end, how the maternal, like,
Here it's like 1.2 million years. It's a lot. So these are at the edge of not being able to produce children. So this is quite different. Humans. These are actually three times closer than these. Yeah. You know, and like if you look at mixtures of humans today, there are mixtures in southern Africa that are people who are half this distance. Yeah. Right. Like you know, if you look closer and down to people mixing southern Africa like closer, which is the you know the population of, for example, Nelson Mandela. Yeah. This is groups that are separated by almost 200,000 years, which is half of this totally compatible, compatible. And so, like what you're seeing is this is a group that's actually completely permeable, nearly or nearly completely permeable. This one is almost certainly extensible by biological compatibility because 300,000 years later, 200,000 years later, we see the interbreeding between the Neanderthals and modern humans, or between Denisovans and modern humans. There's clear evidence of incompatibility. Interesting. But this would be even bigger. So what you would expect to see is as this group spread, they would be moving into territories full of our humans, and there would be some interbreeding, but the kids would be not very fit. Yeah. Off. There would be a lot of infertility, and so the barriers to gene flow of of interbreeding would be greater. So to me, it's not at all surprising that this group moves into Eurasia, here's Eurasian archais, you know, the ancestors of Denisovans. You know, and these are only 400,000 years diverged from these people over here, and here's African archais, and these are like 1.2 million years diverged. So you know they just don't interbreed as much, and so you don't get as much much much gene flow. But the key thing is at the same time, it's the same time. So like it really feels like the signature of an explosion of people from one place interacting with people here, interacting with people here. It's the same sort of sort of cultural revolution or technological revolution impacting this place, impacting this place, and creating populations that are kind of both impacted by the cultural revolution, which we know is the case because
Cumulated, kept being contradictory to the standard model, but could be made to work by proposing another complication, another complication, another complication. But you know, this is not as like fantastical as you know proposing that everything revolves around the sun around the earth. But it is much simpler and actually explains many many things. What is the kind of intuitive or unexpected hard to accept about this alternative model? Like what what is the hesitation that people have for not taking this as the? I don't know. I mean, what do you think about this model right now? So I don't know. It's just I think that I don't know. It seems like obviously a very natural model to me. There's an answer. So Aristotle, ancient Greek, had the heliocentric theory because he had done a bunch of observations about how far the Earth had the distance to the Earth from the sun, and noticed other things, but there was not a doctor because his fellow theories were like, if we believe that the Earth revolves around the sun, for to be the case that we don't see relative movement of the stars to the Earth, the only plausible explanation is that the stars are so far away that it is just incomprehensible and implausible, and so the heliocentric theory was dismissed. And the reason that we're answering that is what is equivalent to like, well, for this to work, the stars have to be so far away that they're invisible. We're like, actually, the stars are so far away that we should adopt the the the implausible location that this theory gives us. That's a great question. I think that we have to assume that there's a link between the cultural transformations now and during this time, and sort of not something that the community has really put together with genetic data. So I think that there's this thread in the genetics about substructure Africans, and then there's this whole world based on ancient DNA, and they've never been put together. So you know that nobody's put together the extensive, now extensive work on modern human substructure within now extensive work based on ancient DNA of our human relationships to modern humans, and if you put them together, you realize they line up into a different kind of substructure. So I think that I don't know that's improbable. It seems actually parsimonious to me. But yeah, yeah, and it also seems significant that different groups of humans at this time were capable of adopting scientific knowledge. Yeah
It's the same moment. This is when that people who like skeletal features like ours, Neanderthals appear exactly then. This is when it all happens. So, like this is when there is this disconnect between anatomically modern humans in the skeletal record and between, you know, behaviorally modern humans, which is fifty hundred thousand years ago, but anatomically modern humans appear at this time, and actually, recognizable Neanderthals appear roughly around this time too. Interesting, interesting. But we don't know what exactly happened. Anytime between two hundred thousand years ago and three thousand years ago, that goes from just anatomical to anatomical modern to behaviorally modern. My understanding is now, you know, there begins to be, you know, there was the making of all stone tools like Neanderthals for two hundred thousand years, and not more impressive Neanderthals in any way, and any obvious way is understanding. Then there begins to be in the archaeological record a quickening of sort of, you know, behavioral sort of traits, you know, which could be not genetic at all, or it could be genetic, like you know, there was. There is lots of arguments about this, but you know, people are obsessed with, you know, like we were obsessed with intelligence in earlier conversations. But people are obsessed with art, and you know, these things that seem important to us, but like who knows what's important? Yeah. And you know, interesting, cool. Thanks for the direction. The work that I've been involved in is consistently shown that I was wrong in my biases coming into work, and I've really been almost traumatized by this. Like again and again, I've come into a project with some kind of guess about what the data was showing, and then the data doesn't show that. So, for example, when I got involved in the Neanderthal genome project and helping to analyze data, looking at how our Neanderthals were related to modern humans, I was part of a group of scientists who had established that non-Africans were a simple subset of African variation, and that there was no essential of Neanderthal interbreeding in the ancestors of modern humans or other archaic interbreeding. Different analyses that I and very much more other people had done made it look like non-African variation was just a subset, a small sample of that, and Africans could fully explain the data. And so, that when I
About biology, which would be was very promising in theory, might actually not produce that. Maybe in fact, natural selection was quiescent. In fact, the reason we're seeing so huge changes is that actually there's not been a lot of directional selection. So that was the situation we found ourselves into just a few years ago when we carried out this study and our research group. So, so what we did is we deployed a few innovations or change to try to improve our power to detect natural selection. One of them is we just pump a lot of data in the system, and so we increase the amount of data by about 14 folds. And the main thing that we do in this study is we report data. This study from about 10, 000 individuals with new data. So this is like a very big increase in the amount of data in the literature, and the total dataset size of ancient individuals distributed over 16, 000 years is about 16, 000 people. So this is a large dataset; it's much larger than was previously possible. When you have more data, you can estimate frequency changes with much more certainty. And the data comes from only one part of the world, which is Europe and the Middle East. It's not a more important part of the world than other places, but it's the place where maybe 70 or 80 percent of the data in the ancient DNA literature so far comes from. Due to historical reasons, it provides us with natural laboratory where we can see what happens over one place over time as environments change to the genome. It's really interesting to imagine doing this type of analysis in other parts of the world, and the comparative analyses are super important and interesting. But this study right now is about this one place in the world where we have particularly fantastic data. The other thing we did is we developed entirely new methodology that hadn't been used in this area before, and the methodology is based on a technique that had been developed for finding risk factors for disease and in medical studies. And a simple way to explain it is we ask how to predict the genetic type a person has based on its pattern of relatedness to other people. So our dataset of about 16, 000 ancient people and 22, 000 people we include the ancient modern people, and then we look at how closely related each of the 22, 000
By other criteria of more than fifty percent confidence, they're real. We think that about thirty eight hundred positions are all pushing in the same direction. This is like a crazy number of results given in our work previously, and other people's work. There were mostly a couple dozen discoveries coming from a single scan. So when we got this result, we were very surprised. We were thought it must be wrong, and we spent the next couple of years trying to make the results go away, but they just kept getting stronger. And so what we were trying to do is to look for some kind of independent evidence to tell us whether these positions were real. And we stumbled on something really powerful for this purpose that had not been used in this way before. And it relied on the fact that we had very large numbers of discoveries, like many hundreds of discoveries or even thousands. And so what we did is we took completely independent data, which was the corpus of genome-wide association studies. So these are studies that people have carried out in hundreds of thousands of people, looking for whether particular genetic mutations are more common in people with high blood pressure, with than with low blood pressure, or something like this. So we took the UK Biobank, which is about five hundred thousand people from Great Britain who have been measured for hundreds and hundreds of traits. A whole genome of all these people has been sequenced, and for each of these traits, we could look whether each of these ten million positions are connected to the trait in some way, in a convincing way. So in ten million positions, about fifteen percent, about one point five million positions in the DNA are predictive of at least one of these several hundred traits. So then we could ask a question: Is our natural selection signal our statistic? Is it related to whether a mutation causes high blood pressure or some other trait? So we slid our statistic for natural selection from upward, you know, to a value of one, a value of two, a value of three, a value of four, a value of five. And as we did that, the enrichment for genetic mutations that affect traits got higher and higher. So whereas it was only fifteen percent when we didn't use our selection statistic, when we required the selection statistic to be above five, there was about a fivefold enrichment for mutations that cause traits. What's your selection statistic? This is the statistic we use to measure whether a mutation is changing over time significantly in a non-zero way. So it it
90 probability that's real, so that gives us a calibrated estimate of the probability that a particular position is really under natural selection. A major concern here is that actually what we're seeing is not that these mutations are really under selection, but rather that both association to a disease and our selection signal are due to some third thing that's causing both of them, which is type of selection which is not what we're after—not selection due to new environments, but what's called background selection, selection against newly arising bad mutations that are removed from the population that tend to be concentrated genes. Genes are also the parts of the genome that tend to be associated traits, and so this common process is causing both the enrichment for traits signals and is also causing the enrichment for selection signals that we're observing. That's the concern. We were super concerned about this. So what we did is we repeated this enrichment analysis in slices of the DNA that all were affected at the same extent by background selection by these rain of slightly bad mutations, and we get exactly the same pattern. We also repeated this experiment in just using mutations of the same frequencies because there's statistical power to detect the signals at different frequencies, and we see the same pattern where above value of selection statistic around five, we get this plateau. So the thing that changed allowed the increase amount of sequences you generate by two orders of magnitude is just the statistical method you're using to identify which part is human or what exactly changed between 1910. So there's been a whole series of improvements. I think that the the the big ones have been the huge drop in sequencing costs, which made it possible to generate human DNA in the first place. So the drop in costs been a millionfold since 2000, and another maybe one to two orders of magnitude from 2010 to today. So that's one big change. Another change has been enrichment. So it's been this way of taking a sample that is very small percentages of human DNA, but then suddenly creating a process that will mean that the great majority of the sequences that we're analyzing will be useful for analysis. And so the approach that we used was we took the DNA samples that we had, most of which were very low percentages of human DNA, less than 10%, often less than 1%, which is such a low proportion that it's prohibitively expensive to sequence them to just brute force sequencing them given the technology that we had available at the time. And
Data, this sort of semi-exponential or even super-exponential jump in some cases, has made it possible to ask and answer questions. So while there were only on the order of ten genome sequences from humans in 2010, there this year it was passed more than twenty thousand reported sequences. So there's several orders of magnitude increase, and the questions we were able to ask in 2014 are just not the same as the ones we can ask today. Yeah, awesome, excellent, David. Thanks for your time. Thank you, thank you, Dorcas.
