I don't want to thank you so much for joining me. Yes, thank you for having us here. Tesla, it is really hard to introduce you without using superlatives. I mean, you are doing, I think, more to build the future than literally anybody alive right now. I'm doing a lot of building in general. You're doing a lot of building. Instead of building robots, like building things. You are you're building. I mean, you know, running around building things. Along, you're running around building a lot of things. Yeah, you're pioneering electric vehicles. You've revolutionised space travel. You've got a cutting edge AI model now. Humanoid robots. Can we start this conversation by putting all of this together? Yeah. Tell me what the world's going to be like in let's say ten years if you succeed. Ten years, we're talking twenty, thirty-six. Yeah. Hopefully, we'll both be around. Hopefully, yes. We can. We can. Probably, most likely, we will be. It's hard to imagine the future that without an overwhelming amount of artificial intelligence. I mean, I can tell you as I would expect artificial intelligence to be far greater than the sum of human intelligence, like far greater. In fact, I think AI may exceed the sum of human intelligence in about in around five years. Five years. Roughly five years is my guess. So there really won't be anything that AI can't do better than humans apart from being human, perhaps. At a more precise level, what will life be like? The most likely outcome is an age of amazing abundance, where anyone can have anything they can think of. This is this is a this may sound preposterous, but we'll hear around twenty twenty-six. Let's see where we stand in twenty thirty-six. Now, of course, there are things that could derail this, like a massive global thermuclear war or something like that. But assuming there's not world war three, I think I think we're headed for an age of amazing abundance. So this is, yes, a message of of optimism and excitement about the future. So we'll talk about the abundance in a second, but just a very precise matter: how will your companies be making money? Because when you're in the space side, the perspective it looks though the overwhelming amount of the revenue would be coming from AI, from rock really. It won't be transporting things to
Money for. You want money for goods and services, right? You want money for, of food, housing, transport, entertainment. Well, if that is so abundant, that there's more, that the robots may are providing more goods and services than than any human could possibly consume. What do you need money for? In that case. But you're you're creating these robots. I guess we all need money, sure. Are you are you selling these robots? You selling human robots, or you producing goods and services with the human robots that you control? I think I think I would probably be. It would be an exercise in vanity to for me to think that I would be controlling, super genius AI that is vastly smarter than me. I think what we can and should try to do is make sure that the AI has good values, that it cares about humanity, and that it wants wants us to be happy and prosper. I think it probably will be. My, what my biological neural net tells me is that the most important thing for AI safety is to be maximally curious and curious. If that's the case, I think it will foster humanity. So let's unpack that. You're sure that humans will no longer be in control in 10 years time. I think it is unlikely. In the same way that if the difference in intelligence between AI and humans is vastly greater than the difference in intelligence between AI and chimpanzees, it's hard to imagine that the chimpanzees would be in charge. I'm really. And we are essentially evolved from chimpanzee. So it wasn't that long ago that we were swinging through the trees, eating bananas in the jungle, and we still eat bananas. We do. We do. And still, you know, we're bananas. I'm swinging through trees as well. Let's do some time swinging through trees. How fun! It's sort of reminiscent of the past. For a long time, I'm saying swinging through trees was fun. You know, there should be more swinging through trees. Better way more fun than people think. I'm with you on that. I'm definitely with you on swinging through trees. I love swinging through trees, but but but I'm really struck listening to say this now because I've been listening to a bunch of things that you've said over the years. Yeah. And and 10 years ago, you were on a podcast. I think it was with Neil deGrasse Tyson, and
Then, grades of gradual cooling. I mean, this is the heat death of the universe is cold. So, if if the heat death of the universe is in fact the outcome, reality, then it really is all about the journey, because the destination is terrible. Ten years is not very. Yeah, I get that, but that could be a long way. Yeah, very, very, very long way. If it's ten to twenty percent in ten years, would you go into one of your rockets if you thought there was a ten to twenty percent chance of it blowing up and killing you? Yes, but let's say this: you can't do anything about it. Okay. I guess the only thing we can try to do is minimize the probability of the bad outcome. But trying to stop the intelligence robots. I mean, for the longest time, I declined to participate in AI or with you know, you know, creating open AI as essentially counterweight to Google because at the time they were had more or less monopoly on AI, and then anthropics went out of of AI, and and anything. It seems like my actions have really accelerated AI. You know, I wasn't really aiming to accelerate AI, but increasing open AI and having anthropics run out of that, and now currently anthropics are the leader in AI. I mean, these actions have actually resulted in knock-on effects that accelerated AI, which wasn't really my intention. So it just seems like all roads lead to acceleration of AI. So then I'm like, okay, well, you can just sort of be sad about it or join the club, I suppose. Well, you certainly join the club. Yeah, I'm definitely joining the club. But what about trying to minimize the risks? And you know, a number of the other leaders of of model makers have been pushing for different ways to try and minimize the risks. You know, just last week, Demis was out with a proposal for a private regulator. Yeah. You said it was a good starting point for discussions. I think. Do you think you guys should be working more actively to get something in place to control the risks, or do you think that's impossible too? My recommendation to Demis, because we I talked to him for a few hours before he published his piece, was that the most immediate thing that we could do is to have the leading AI companies at least just meet, have a some sort of call once every few weeks, and just
There's also, of course, some very competent Chinese companies that several several of them are very good. The new Kimi model, Kimi K3, yeah, the one that came out last week. I mean, it's almost as good as Fable, right? Well, I think realistically, Fable is still clearly the smallest model. I think anyone realistically would say that that's still the case. But the Kimi model is getting quite close to Fable. Now, Anthropic had the methods from which Fable is derived. I think they had that ready in February, so they've got they've got sort of the core I don't know what they call it methods to Fable's actual something something much better than what they had in February. They almost certainly have, not almost certainly, they certainly have right now. So, and I think they could they they could release it at any time. Just before we go on to releasing, how do you think about the Chinese models and the geopolitics of it? Are you worried about the Chinese catching up and getting ahead, given that the Chinese AI companies are are doing as well as they are with a relatively small amount of compute? It seems as that if they had a lot of compute, there's a good chance that they would be the leaders. At some point, they probably will have a lot of compute. So they will. I go. They will be the leaders. There's a good chance that they are the leaders at some point. You can think of like the constraints on AI essentially electricity and AI chips, and then for physical AI, the robots. China's also got some very good robot companies. In fact, they have these like robot sporting events. Have you seen some of them? Yes, I have. I saw the last time I was in Beijing. I saw the yeah robots. Well, and then they have the sort of like a like a boxing match or fighting match with the the robots, which is quite entertaining. And I saw some video robots that got its head knocked off, kept fighting even with its head knocked off. Pretty funny. But I mean, in fact, I think the the robot battles are going to be quite entertaining to watch. But but just so it's so China is very strong on robots, very strong on digital AI, and and if you look at electricity production, you say like AI is a function of whatever whatever the limiting factor is, it's chips or electricity. China has far
China, I see. Yeah. And since China, you know, the U.S. has banned the export of latest AI chips to China, China is is so much chip-starved. So they are becoming much more efficient at using the chips that they have. But that that one of the striking things I can get through right is how efficiently. And and China is also, I I think, closer than most people realize to solving the lithography problem, which would enable them to make AI chips at at very large volumes. So. So I think there's, you know, there's a certain development to just China composition, but but so the current constraints is actually the outside of China. And China, the constraints chips, once the once we address the the power constraint with AI data centers and space, then the constraint will once again be chips outside of China. That suggests to me that you need China and the U.S. If you're going to have some overall safety constraints, they will need to work together. If you are going to try and, you suggested, you know, the five models here working. Well, I think it would probably include the Chinese companies that are doing frontier AI models too. And do you think governments need to be involved? My recommendation would be that if if some of the leading companies in AI say that this a new model is very dangerous, then they should inform the government. And and and if a new model is very dangerous and that the company producing that model is not taking steps to address the danger, then then they should allow the government to take action to limit the release of that model. And that could be action by the Chinese government or action by the U.S. government. It's it's really it's really just the U.S. government and the Chinese government that that have the power to take action here. But the I guess people would be worried about relying on a group of model builders to decide whether to do this. I mean, if you look at what the U.S. government has done with with Meta, they stepped in because they were worried about the cybersecurity risks, and they stepped in using you know threat vector controls to you know prevent the widespread release of this model. I find it hard to see how governments will not want to keep that power that they ultimately decide whether or not to release. I think they should keep they should have that power. But it wasn't so. Someone in the government figured out that Meta's was had had some scary cybersecurity risks
So that seems to work quite well. So and and and then you really just ask ask the government to be if if some if a company's doing something very dangerous and refuses to take action to reduce the danger. Do you think this is this is a tricky one? But you guys don't much like each other and you don't much trust each other on social media constantly. So do you do you think you do that with people that you dislike? That where there seems to be some kind of personal betrayal between some of these leaders. Um. Yes. Well, I'm I'm not a fan of Sam Altman because um, if you started a non-profit that was meant to be an open source AI company, and um, yeah, all about the world, uh, and somehow got turned into an 800 billion dollar for-profit company with close source. I think you'd be like, well, wait a second, that's uh, exactly the one I donated the money for. That that's my issue. And it's a little bit of one. And then Dario, I think, also is not a fan of Sam Altman because he felt, in fact, the reason the entire team left OpenAI is because they they didn't trust Sam Altman. Otherwise, Anthropic would exist. There would still be OpenAI. Um. I I think Dario's a very principled person and he cares about things a lot. I care about the future of the world, and I think everyone I've met at Anthropic so far has been. I mean, like no one set off my evil detector. You know, there was seem seem like there were intentions. Um, and uh, the road to hell is, I think, mostly paved with bad intentions. There are a few well-intentioned paving stones in there, so we we don't be complacent. Um, but uh, at the end of the day, we have to talk. We'll talk and set aside personal differences for the good of the world. Well, that's that's a very good thing for the rest of us to hear. Yeah. Um. Can I can we talk about another risk that people worry about? Particular thing. Ordinary Americans worry. AI is becoming incredibly unpopular. 75 percent of people are worried about it. And I think they worry about their jobs. And if you look at Dario has said, obviously, what 50 percent of entry-level jobs, entry
At writing software, and beyond software, beyond and that applies to everything. Everything. Everything. Everything. Everything. But what about you for for physical jobs, for assembly jobs? You will also need the capability in human robots, which so far isn't there yet, is it? Right. So that's why I said digital AI and then physically manifested AI in the form of robots. The robots is more or less an end effector. It would have some amount of local intelligence, but be managed by a large AI model. And I and I've said many times, I think work is going to be optional. So, I mean, so so I think maybe maybe a good a good comparison would be gardening. Like you don't have to garden, you know, like you don't have to grow vegetables in your in your garden. You can go to the store, and there will just be pristine vegetables, or you can grow vegetables in your garden, and they will actually be, yeah, less perfect. You're not going to be as plump and juicy as the ones at the store. They're they're they're you know a little optional. But you know, if you go to a friend's house and they they make dinner and they're it's with vegetables from their garden, it's it's a nice touch. So that's what the world is going to be like. You know, I get that. I mean, in that world, I would be hopeless because I can't garden, save my life. But I get that people still like playing chess with each other, even though they have computers better. Let's just let's just think about the politics of this. Yeah, because it sounds you're describing a world where within ten years pretty much every job can be done better by an intelligence. And yes, you're seeing huge returns to the intelligence. People like you, you're the wealthiest man in the world. What people who lose their jobs who are displaced, who may go from garden, but how are they going to live? And what kind of I mean, it sounds to me universal high income. But how are you going to get that? Let's talk about the politics of this, because right now we if we look at the political pressures in most countries, people are very very worried about this, very against it. I mean, it seems to me that there's a risk that we are heading more for revolution than for easy route to this nirvana you're playing
Like a lot of what we're trying to think about is these things were relevant in the past; they will not be relevant in the future. So, like inflation is simply the ratio of money to to to goods and services. So, if the goods and services output increases dramatically, if it increases, you know, a thousand percent, you can increase the you can literally, well, in this case, change the database, not print money. You create money in the in the database. Provided the creation of that money is less than the rate at which goods and services increase, you you actually have deflation. So, I'm making a prediction which is that deflation will be the issue, not inflation, because because as the output of goods and services increases, if if the output of goods and services increases past the money supply, you will have deflation. I'm actually I'm perfectly willing to believe that you may well be right. Yeah, absolutely, you may well be right. But I'm I'm really hung up on how we get from the current polarized, angry, fearful policy we have now to this new one. And I think you could you can paint a picture where people are scared by this. You know, they essentially try to stop it. Maybe they can't, but you get nationalized. There's a kind of you know far left government. There's exorbitant tax increases. The kind of economy crumbles because people are so worried about the future, which does sound quite scary, as you describe it. How do you how do you handle the politics now? Exalting and terrifying. But if if you were yeah exactly if you ask me on any given day, I in fact even in today I've gone from exalation to terror regarding AI. So I'm not so far away from where I'm now. I'm not so. Some you know I'm trying to be sort of candid here and just be some. Oh, everything's wonderful. Some pan glassian view of the world where everything is you know going to be great. No, no, no risk. I'm saying there is some risk. I think we agree on that. I guess I'm trying to be more sort of you know small, born, practical, and think about what can be done now to limit those risks. And you gave a very strong argument for what you and your fellow model makers could do. Which I could probably would be good to sort of coordinate and and just
So, it's not. Um, that's pretty much what it gets me in. In so I guess the AI, so smart that it's it's it's in charge, and and that point, controlling companies really matter. Well, let's talk about that because I think one of the other things that worries people about the direction we're heading in, and I'm going to caricature it, but people think that the direction of the world is being shaped by a very small number of incredibly powerful people, and you are right at the top of this. So what else is but it's it's different from the from the. I agree with you. I think it was like that. Well, wasn't that? It was ever that. It was ever that. It is a as you've described very vividly. It's incredibly rapid change. And so let's start with control of your company, which you definitely have now. Basically, you basically you have 80 percent or of voting shares, and I understand it. You could only be removed by a voting shares which you also control. So so tell me if I'm wrong, but I think yeah, you could only be removed in that bucket. By the way, the the AI companies, like Google, in that in that bucket, Alphabet is controlled by Larry Page. Um, I think yours is more extreme. The intellectuality to say, they they have um, voting control of of that company, um, Microsoft has control of matter, um, and and the you know, Microsoft is trying very hard on the AI front. I think probably will will also have leading AI. He's made I think he released one last week, um, so I think he's he's he will be one of the, you know, maybe will be one of the AI companies. But is it sensible for one person to have so much control over a company? Um, well, I really just need to make sure that I can focus on long term, my long term, I just mean in my five to ten years. Um, so one of the challenges with being a public company is that is other sort of the pressure to have great results every single quarter, but and and and to not really invest in things that mainly pay off in five to ten years, and um, you know, in the case of SpaceX, I need I want to extend consciousness beyond Earth, and and have a growing civilization on the Moon, Mars, and elsewhere in
Steve Jobs had, you know, he he he had a strategic vision and a bunch of products that that that he had had ideas for, and Apple has done very well. But but but when you don't have a creative genius like Steve Jobs, you don't. You you what what you miss, what what Apple's missing are the incredible breakthrough products. Yeah. So they make amazing phones, you know, great computers, but Apple hasn't come up with a sort of Steve Jobs, Steve Jobs level breakthrough product. So biology, that's what you bring to all of your companies. Yeah. You mentioned Mars. You know, most people think of you as the man who wants to, you know, create a colony on Mars. So we have multiplanetary civilization. I've been saying that for such a long time. You have, but now you seem more focused on AI and what AI will do in the next ten years, and you you sound much more excited about using the moon as a base from which to, you know, pop out orbital AI satellites. Have you shifted your attention away from Mars, or are you as interested in colonizing Mars as you ever were? I'm interested in the set of actions that propagate consciousness into the future to the maximum degree possible, so that the future light cone of consciousness is as big as as big as we could, you know, like the the exciting future where there's where there's spacefaring civilization out there among the stars, and and the the great things that are envisioned in the non-dystopian sci-fi books and movies become real one day. I sort of want the Star Trek, you know, Star Wars future. Star Wars was the first movie I ever saw. No, by the way. Really? Yes, probably had a profound effect on me as well. So I remember I was, blew my mind. I was, I think I was six years old, and I was like, this is a great thing. Have you your life been about making that happen? Yeah, I mean, I didn't think it would be, but when I was young, but um, and my my life feels so much real, like I can't believe these things are actually happening, you know. I think the world makes me believe in simulation theory. Where it's like, well, this, like the the things I'm doing are so prosperous that um, it's hard to believe they're real. I mean, we've got Starship
Now, David Halperin, these are geopolitical decisions of consequence. How do you feel about having that power? You could determine the outcome of wars. How does that feel? And is it right that you should have that power? Well, I'm sure we're determining the ultimate outcome of the, you know, the state of the war in Ukraine. You know, I I I think I I do hope that that that some sort of peace agreement is soon, because for two or three years now, the border has barely moved, and and every day there are lots of people dying at the front line, and and I think there's a lot of wishful thinking here of people saying, well, Russia should completely withdraw, etc. But this is not realistic. I really think there needs to be some, you know, a a a peace with that that that is. You know, we have to be pragmatic about this. What we can't, what I think would be terrible, is if if there's if there's another three years of people dying senselessly at the front lines. With with the and you have to say like, well, you know, how do you explain to the the the children of the men that are dying at the front lines? Russia on the Russian side too, by the way, they're they're being conscripted instead. I am white, offended by sort of fancy diplomats who have, you know, seven quarters in in you know in luxurious places while people are dying at the front lines, and who are who are pontificating about how Russia should withdraw, but they're not going. Russia is not going to withdraw, so there really needs to be accepted peace along along those lines. And do you think it's your responsibility to play a role in tipping the scales towards what you see as the right way to peace? I I I would like I I've been advocating peace for a long time. You know, I I posted a few years ago that that that there really needs to be some concession here in Russia. This is not me being pro-Russian; I'm just being pragmatic. Or people will die for years with nothing achieved, and that is exactly what happened. I don't know. I mean, the Ukrainian are doing the Ukrainian are doing pretty well right now at you know with their incredible drone capacity in inside Russia, and the and the general consensus is that you know the the the balance of the war is shifting. But my point is not so much Ukraine
And I got a lot of facts from this, from this obviously, but the people don't understand just how simple it was for for the team to approve payments. If we literally we we we just asked to have the contact information of the recipients, was some evidence that same money was going to its intended purpose. But over over there we we told we need to wire money for some sort of important cause in Africa. We're like, okay, but the wiring wiring instructions are to the Lord and to D.C. in Washington D.C., not to Africa. So we would like to send the money to Africa. Can you please connect us with the recipients so we can send them the money directly? And then we get silence. I have. We don't need to relay the data. I have no doubt that there was there's a lot of waste in the U.S. government. I think probably much worse than anyone could possibly imagine. But the way I think there is it is a fact, it isn't the way you shut down a whole bunch of programs, probably, and that certainly caused unnecessary suffering. No, no, you don't. It caused a lot of complaining. You don't. So you don't buy the idea that anybody, put it really crudely, simply any kid in Africa died because the suddenness with which zero. I just don't think that's right. I just don't think my I had people in Africa who how many NGOs are there that that could that could step in because bear in mind this it was it happened quickly. So there are literally tens of thousands of NGOs. Yeah, not everyone functions as fast as you do. If if if funding is cut off for anti-retrovirals overnight and it just stops, then people will die when they don't have access to them, and it just no, no, only if they cannot get funding for that. But the Gates Foundation has fifty billion dollars. What what what about that? What about any one of another organizations? What about the Well, not the Gates Foundation. Whatever last name is, gave fifty billion dollars. What about that? Let's be practical. In many of these countries, USAID was the biggest fund, but I I don't want to have USAID was a political organization. May also be, but it was the biggest funder of health care systems. I I am I'm very sure of regime change, and and there may well be benefits from having. Also, you were saying
Personally, it's reasonably free country. It's not one to one, but but I'm because I'm genuinely interested in this. As someone who lives in Europe, lives in London, yeah, you paint a picture. Of course, we all support not just the populist right, but the far right, very fringe parties in some countries. Normal people. Okay. What do you call a far right, mostly? You think it's the normal person. Okay. Yes. Um. Let's you could you could go back, uh, 15 years, and these these these policies were completely normal. In fact, you you one of the one of the things that I find is funny. I think it's quite funny to like take a speech from Obama and Hillary, and then and then go to someone and say, "Who's who's sort of, you know, on the sort of what I call the lunatic left?" Um, and say, "What do you think of the speech by Trump?" Like, "Oh, he's the worst person ever." Actually, that was a speech by Obama, or actually that was a speech by Hillary. I I I read no, I read that the centre of gravity in this country has shifted to the normal party parties, which is left. But that's not what I'm talking about. I'm talking about people like Rupert Murdoch's right. Please, it's actually just normal people. It's just normal people. It's normal people, and um, the and here are the principles. And tell me which of these sound terrible. Um, that we should have secure borders, that we should have safe cities, that we should have sensible spending. Which of those three are are far right fringe, and and I would like to just admonish you and the media for the obsoletification of the far right, which is false and misleading and nonsense. Please keep this part in. We'll keep all of this. Don't cut this part. Let me push back. Let me push back. You have nonsense. You know, you have what is it? Close to 250 million followers on X. Yeah. You say things like "popular quote: Civil war in Britain is inevitable." Just on Twitter, yes. When were you last in the UK? Um, a few years ago. Exactly. So so I lived there, and that whole time, that is not. You look at the statistics. No, I don't actually
A totally inaccurate picture of Europe. I don't think it is. We should we should do a tour of the UK. Yes, and why? Because the UK has actually been very good at integrating immigrants. The UK has is is very effective doing that. There are problems. I'm the first to admit that there are problems. Yes, there are major problems. There are problems, but it is not really is not what you are describing to or suggesting to your 240 million followers. I think it is. And I think there's a problem. No, I think I'm I think I'm spot on. Well, well, and that's why you have freedom of speech, or at least you don't have any problems in the UK. Things go wrong, but your point is not that you're not just saying I have every right to say what I want, or saying you know I am right about Europe, and I really don't think you are. I think I am. I think you will find that most people in Europe, or many people in Europe, don't think you're right about it. But let's let's come to the media. The media keeps ignoring what's ignoring reality. Nothing that's true either. I really, I really don't buy the TV and conventional media. But and why are you? This is, I guess, even to me sort of the bigger picture question. Why do you focus on this? Why are you interested in it? Because on the one hand, we started this conversation, and you describe to me this extraordinary transformative, amazing, yeah, civilizational change stuff that's happening in the next 10 years. And yet, you're also, you know, an ongoing participant in the worst kind of tribalism, you know, obsessed of social media. Like, how does that fit? You, you know, on the one that two very different views of the world. Yeah, I don't think they're inconsistent. But why do the latter one, the tribalism? I mean, people say that you're racist. People say that you're, you know, there are all kinds of things said about you, which I'm sure you would disagree with. But I just don't understand what is the motivation for doing that. Yes, my main partner is is um she's Indian, and my my and I have four children with her. Um, you know, um, one of them was named after a famous Indian Buddhist
More than you realize. Do you realize the media despise? Do you realize that that journalists, the view of journalists is is is like it's like the favorable view of journalists is like feeding the stand. And the and the now say that. So so the shoe is on the other foot. They hate you. They hate you far more than they hate me. I think there is certainly lost trust in journalists. I think in part that there have been mistakes by journalists and journalists might totally acknowledge that, but I also think that the kind of polarized environment, particularly on social media, fostered by the kind of things you're pushing on us, actually helps this, makes it worse. I don't think so. I think I think you're the problem, the media. And and and speaking of losing, you are losing far more than I am, and you don't even realize that. I think I think very few people know who I am relative to you, so I don't think I play in the same game. The media play differently. So I mean, you hate it. Do you Do you even know that? You probably don't. I like to think that I'm aware of my own personal shortcomings and the economist's shortcomings and our world view shortcomings. Yeah. But what we stand for, as you as you know, is liberal values, traditional, classical liberal values, where we worry about concentration of power and we believe in the individual and the dignity of the individual, and individual freedom. I agree with that. I agree with that. But I believe that, and I have long thought that you were classical liberal. But when I read what you post, classical liberal, James Mill, limited government, individual freedom. Yeah, I agree with that. But when I read what you post on your feed, I sometimes wonder whether you really believe in that. I actually said, look, I believe in safe cities, secure borders, sensible spending, with respect to government. Just the US. That doesn't make me right-wing at all in the East. Does the US or do European countries score better on those? The US does better. Yeah. Safe cities much more dangerous in the US, UK. Sensible spending, big deficit here, out of control, managed, you've you've you failed to reduce secure borders. Now under the Trump administration, I agree with you. Before not, but on two out of three, unequivocally, Europe is a better place. Yet you
The point is not that the question is not is is America perfect? Question is it is Europe have a serious growing problem? Absolutely, Europe has a serious growing problem. That's why we started this. Europe has a serious growing problem. I am I am not going to say that the United States has no problems of course it does, but you know we we should all try to address these issues. We can agree on that. We should all try to address the problems. My point was simply that I think you exaggerate the scale of Europe's problem, and that I think you people are asleep at the switch and do not realize the magnitude of the issue. I also think that your interventions, however well intentioned they may be, risk making Europe's problem a lot worse. How? Because you are putting your support behind people who are pro-authoritarians who are not trying simply to, you know, make sure there is better integration of Muslims into to secure the borders, but who have very clear fascist tendencies, and you will cause huge divisions within Europe. I think what you're saying is total fiction, and really I I'm simply saying that there needs to be there needs to that Europe has to have secure borders. Okay, and that we are not letting vast numbers of people who refuse that are entitled to the accepted views in in Europe, and and where there will where there will not be some level of safe cultural integration. This is some common sense. If all you are saying is Europe should have secure borders, I completely agree with you. Then, then I have misunderstood what your interventions have been on social media, because that is not what the view I have, not what I would conclude having seen what the people you are supporting and the things you're doing. But if that's your goal, I share your goal that Europe should have secure borders. Yes, that's perfectly reasonable. That gets me to a question. And let me let me explain what the fundamental forcing function here is for why the borders are not secure, which is when you have a welfare state that provides substantial benefits to anyone who comes there, you create a very powerful economic forcing function for anyone who is below that standard of living to come to Europe. It is it is an obvious powerful driving force, and the people who come there if if their standard of living is from what they get in Europe is above where they are elsewhere in the world. It's very basic. I completely agree with that. Yeah, I don't disagree.
Evidence will be able to decide which of us is more or less right, and we will find evidence for both of our views in different parts of Europe. The question is what the overall. I'm very good at predicting the future. I'm not perfect, but I'm very good at predicting the future. My batting average is is very high for a human, but this this this has somewhat of a Cassandra effect, where where people don't believe that what I'm saying is likely to be true, because you know I I can see into the future with a higher, not perfectly, but with a higher probability of success than most people. So, and including things that people believe to be in some cases counterintuitive, and again, I'm not saying I'm always right. I certainly am not, but but my batting average is very good. But but this this this does have, like I said, a Cassandra effect, where people don't realize that what I'm saying will come to pass. Maybe not exactly in the timing that I thought, but it will come to pass. And yeah, the history will write the verdict, but I think you will see that very little of what I've said is inaccurate, and a supermajority of what I've said is very accurate and will come to pass, unless there are there's some change in direction. Do you have higher confidence level in your expectations of the future for AI, the first part of our conversation, or the latter part, the political part? The I mean AI is digital superintelligence. It's called the singularity, like a black hole, because you don't know what's going to happen after that. It's and and it sort of sucks in everything. So I think really in terms of the the really big macro effects here, AI and robots will really dominate everything. So on on a time scale that is less than 10 years, which probably renders this sort of stuff that we've been talking about less important and less relevant. The AI AI robotics revolution will happen sooner. It will happen sooner than civil war in in in Britain. I would say civil war in Britain is probably 20 years away, and the AI robots singularity is 10 years away. Well, hopefully, these benign, all-powerful AIs will prevent such outcomes. They probably will. I don't. I don't agree with everything you say, but it's always absolutely fascinating to talk to you. Thank you very much indeed.
