Yeah, again, experience. Right my day, alright, my day, my day. But if you want to see like the vision of the future, it's like basically the like the top twenty, the well even the top hundred is like totally dominated by China. Really? Yeah, it's like China, a little bit of Korea, Taiwan. So you are you in the top twenty in the world? Yeah, twenty. Wow, in Diablo. Yeah, yeah. Do you want to tell everybody your handle? No, no, don't tell. Don't tell. Well, they actually listed me with my actual name in the list. Oh, did they really? Oh, interesting. But there's only there's only two Americans in the top twenty. The rest, almost everyone is from Asia. Otherwise. We were talking about something that I think is really good because people always think that video games are frivolous, but what you were saying, I think, that's really important. Is it? It's so difficult that it requires you to only think about that and it can like relieve stress. Yeah. It can take out the rest of the world because it's so hard. Yeah. You can only think about that. Yeah, I mean, finally, if I play a video game, extremely difficult to then I have to concentrate fully on the game, and it's it has a calming effect. Yeah. It sort of kills time, and I mean, actually, I think, and maybe people like if you play martial arts, or you play cool, yeah, like something that forces you. It's like I think any anything that forces you to concentrate fully actually has a has a calming effect. It just sort of like kind of a mental restoring effect. Yeah. It's good. Just is like that. Yeah. Art is like that as well. Yeah. Like when you're shooting a bow, you have to. There's so many moving things, and you're trying. You have to think only of that. Yeah. Cleans the mind. Cleans the mind. Yeah, exactly. I was I was reading a study about surgeons. Yeah. Where they found that surgeons who regularly play video games make less errors. Well, it's it. I mean, video games require manual dexterity. Yeah. It makes sense. Completely makes sense. Actually, if somebody was like, "I've been good at video games," I'd say like, "There's surgical skills gonna be very
A lot of people find golf good, and I guess if you think about it, like it's—I guess if you're saying you're going to walk outdoors with friends, yeah, occasionally hit a ball, then and just and as an outdoor walk, then that's cool. And this requires concentration, really, the ball, but it's it's it's it's it's too slow for me. Nothing compares to video games in terms of like the amount of feedback you get, like the the the sensory overload you get when you're looking at a large, high-resolution screen, you have a fast computer, you have headphones on, you're hearing sounds from here and sounds behind you, and rockets are flying by you. Yeah, it's there's nothing like that. Yeah, but I think golf still is like Jamie will tell you, Jamie's an addict. He's a golfer. It's super addictive, and takes like eight hours a day. It's yeah. When when you're into golf, I think I can say it's sport. It's super addictive. So, but for me, the the intensity of video games is hard to beat. Yes, it's and the people dismiss it because they think it's just a waste of time, but we're showing like real world benefits. So, people playing video games, yeah, you want to be a drone operator, it's only game in town. Yeah, absolutely. Really good at video games. Yeah, for sure. So, um, if I I can actually tell, um, like what my mental acuity is, if I just play, if I play very hard video games, so if I'm trying to sort of get like extremely good, clear time and get below something like that, um, or or you know, of course, whatever case may be, like if I can tell that I'm tired or my brain's not working as well as it should, it's it's like it's like a mental calibration. What is what? How good is your mental state? Right, right. Um, and uh, you know, so like, if you're trying to play really well, like I just if you play late at night and you're tired, you're just playing badly, right? And you can say, okay, you you may think that your brain is working well, but it isn't. Yeah, you play video game and you're like you suck, so okay. Yeah, you're
Regenerative farming is carbon neutral if it doesn't sequester carbon. The animals are not going to make any difference to global warming. They're not. No, it's bullshit. There's nothing. Do you think that that's just propaganda because of people that have vested interests like plant-based meat products and things along those lines? Green energy. I think it's part of it. You know, you're only going to get people pushing to avoid meat like sorry, we'll just you know maybe they're going to go plant-based, maybe they're just like vegetarians or vegans or whatever. Um, ideological ideological reasons. Um, but uh, it's not going to make any difference uh to global warming or you know the CO two concentration atmosphere really um if if people eat fewer uh steaks it doesn't matter it's irrelevant irrelevant I want to be super clear about that. Yeah, it will not matter. You will not even be able to measure it. Okay, that's how irrelevant it is. Isn't it funny that that's unmeasurable? That's irrelevant. A heretic speaking. Like that's crazy talk. Now, nowadays, it's like you have to say that we have to eat less meat. No meat is bad. Totally, as much meat as you want, it's not going to make a difference. Say it. Say it. Tell the world. Yeah, absolutely. Um, if somebody says it does make a difference, I'm like, how would you measure it? And if you can't even measure it, then it's bullshit. Yeah. Yeah, literally, we won't be able to measure it. Well, there's so much bullshit out there. First of all, thank you for the directions. Thank you so much for buying Twitter. Thank you so much. I'm not exaggerating when I think you changed the course of history. I really do. I really think you you made a fork in the road. We were headed down a path of censorship and of control of narratives that is unprecedented. Forget about what they were able to do back when they had newspapers and the media under control. The what they were doing with social media by suppressing information and then you had combined government effort like what what they were doing with the laptop story. We have 51 former intelligence agents saying this is Russian disinformation. Yeah, take it off offline. Yeah, Twitter complied. Yeah, if if you didn't buy that, we wouldn't have
Things way overpriced, and you know, like long term, I think we can we can ultimately make it work for investors, but boy, this is this is a this is a hard way to make living. Well, there's also concerted effort to suppress the concerted effort with the advertisers. We we we still have a massive advertiser boycott that was organized by a bunch of left wing NGOs, like you know, and and yours one. I should I should have bought my I I have a hat make all wealth fiction again. I've seen that hat. Yeah, I should have. I was gonna wear my I should have bought my make all fiction again, but but yeah, I mean it's just totally totally nuts. So if you didn't do it, no one would have. And here's the hilarious narrative that I keep hearing from idiots: Elon's a bad business man. Twitter is worth, you know, four hundred percent less than when he bought it. No, it wasn't worth that in the first place. It wasn't worth that in the first place. It wasn't worth forty four billion dollars. You fucking moron! Like wrong, and also you're not taking into account the advertiser boycott. Exactly, that's total bullshit. Yeah, exactly. So there are these organizations, like you can tell, it's like they're like like when they have an Orwellian name, so like the the Center for Countering Digital Hate, right, is a total scam organization, you know, because they're like the Ministry of Truth, yeah, you know, Orwell, you know, they're they're like they're a censorship organization. Yeah, and they're and and they pushed the advertisers to boycott. So we still have like some of the boycotts is is starting to lift, and I think if Trump wins, we'll see you know probably a lot most of the boycott lift, but if Kamala wins, we'll see that boycott gets stronger. And and they'll freaking shut down. There's no way that that this Kamala Kamala administration would allow it to exist. You really think that they'll be able to shut it down, though? Is there a pathway to that? Yeah. What would they do? Um. Well, I mean, they can just they can sue the DOJ on on you know and say like you know they have this whole thing about like hate speech, misinformation, whatever. Except they're the ones pushing the misinformation. I mean, like
So like Stalin's like chief torturer, the head of Stalin's secret police, and he's like chief torturer, truly evil human being. Like this guy Beria, his one of his famous quotes was, "Show me the man, and I'll show you the crime." Right. They just they just they they like they decide that you're the target, and then they figure out the crime afterwards. That's the issue. Yeah. They decide it's based exclusively with the target, they just figure out the crime afterwards. Which is so crazy because that's exactly what they're saying Trump is going to do if he gets into office. They're doing all the things that they accuse Trump of doing. Yeah. Openly. Openly. Yeah. I mean, the the sheer number of hoaxes that the Democratic Party is pushing over and over again. They and and like look, I sound like politicians are going to you know exaggerate. They're going to misbe and they'll tell like emotional you know truths whatever that's how it is in politics. But when you have deliberate concerted repeated pushing of hoaxes, you're like wait a second, like come on man, this is too, this is too far. And you're supposed to be the good guy. You're supposed and you claim to be the good guy. I'm like exactly. You're supposed to be the progressives. Yes, the Dems like, oh we're the good guys, we're the honest people. No, no, no, you can't claim to be the good guys. You can't claim to be the honest people if you deliberately push pushing hoaxes that have been debunked thoroughly. Yeah. Well, not even like even Snopes, which is a liberal thing, says bogus. Yeah. Like the flying people hoax. Obama just said that. Obama just said that. I was like, what the flying fuck? He doesn't give a fuck. He doesn't give a fuck. They're just they're just flat out fucking flat out lie, flat out fucking lie. The other one where Kamala's campaign used what Trump was saying about protecting women and from illegal immigrants. Thank you. Remember that? Yeah. What he was saying was that women like it or not, I'm gonna do it. Yeah. When he was saying that, they were trying to say that he was taking women right to choose whether women like it or not. Like that's not what he was saying. Absolutely,
You, I think they would have had total control social media by now. Yeah, they would have. They banned so many accounts during the pandemic. So many dissenting scientists and doctors and physicians. They banned so many conspiracy theorists. So many people that colored outside the lines. They would have done that everywhere, and it probably would have. I think even what's going on at Facebook, they're they're being more lenient. You know, you hear Zuckerberg talking about taking more libertarian stance. That's entirely reaction to the way Twitter has kind of moved the watermark. Exactly so, um, it's it's any company outside the line, and it's going to actually have the truth debate on that platform. The force is the other platform to allow things to be more truthful to to not censor, because the censorship becomes glaringly obvious. Yes. Yes. And you know the the best thing I found for as a rebuttal, like if somebody if there's a hoax, is just go to the source material. Right. If if somebody saying things, you know, it's you know Trump said that we should put the chain and firing squad. Like, let me say directly that so you can watch his video. That's the best way. Yeah. It's it don't don't take my opinion for it. Don't take anyone's opinion for it. Go to the source material. And community notes. Yes, community notes. Community notes is the best. Awesome. It's incredible because everybody gets checked. Yes, including me. Yeah. And with community notes, the all the software is open source, and all the data is open source. So you can recreate any given note independently. That's amazing. Yeah. That's how it's. That's how it should be. Absolute transparency in every way. You know, so now I get. I get asked like, "Oh, you know, can you remove notes? " You know, mostly by the left, but sometimes by the right. I'm like, I'm like, I don't even remove notes on my own account. Nothing. And and and by the way, everything is totally open. So if by that, which is taken out like a sword, them. Yeah. Immediately, like it's not gonna be subtle. That is the best counter to misinformation. Yes, absolutely. Like, let everybody look at it and say, "Okay, here's what the actual facts are. " Yes, exactly. The
The world that we live in is that tyranny is possible and it exists other places and it's slowly existing. It's slowly rearing its head in the UK. You're saying, I think the the number of people that have been arrested for just social media posts is bananas. It's in the thousands. Yes, several thousand people have been have been given prison sentences in the UK for social media posts that with no explicit link to actual violence, but they just said it encouraged violence, like no one actually doing anything as a result of that media post, uh, you know, but they just and and then they have a prison overcrowding situation in the UK, so they're quite literally releasing convicted pedophiles and putting people in jail for Facebook posts. That's an actual thing happening in Britain. That is so wild. Like it's you're like it's so wild that people can't block. You know, it's going on, and what's insane to me? It's all fiction, yeah. You know, but it's all being encouraged by the left, contingent on John John Kerry. John Hillary Clinton. John Kerry was one of the people who said that he's on camera, like few weeks ago, saying that the first amendment is is an obstacle to fighting misinformation. Yeah, it's crazy. That's such a crazy thing to say when you have a solution in community notes. Yeah, a solution and something that that could clear everything up and get you to the day or two. And and even with that community note, you can reply to a post and with evidence that that shows that the post is wrong. You don't even need community notes. I mean, community notes is helpful because it sticks to the original note. Yeah, but in the reply, you can say here's why you're wrong, here's the reasons, and here's the evidence. The argument is that people are too unsophisticated that they're not going to research these things. They're going to be victims of misinformation. So they're going to read something, it's incorrect. They're going to run with it. People are going to die. People are going to ruin the world because people believe misinformation. It's a stupid argument. It's a stupid argument because it's an argument that they're too dumb to know what's right or wrong. If you if you know, because you're saying it's misinformation, why do you think you're smarter than everybody who reads that? Exactly, and
Thirties and then compare it to Trump rally, ignoring the fact that fucking Jimmy Carter spoke there. There have been dozens of rallies at Madison Square Garden, dozens on the on Democrat side. Like people, people on X, like and here is exactly here is Jimmy Carter and here is Bill Clinton and here is what a second. Actually, it looks like every presidential candidate has done a on the Democrat side has done a rally at Madison Square Garden. So they're not these two, but what they're doing is they're preying on low information voters who aren't engaged actively on social media who don't have the time to look through everything exactly. Yeah, like people if if people are just on looking at like the mainstream media, then they have a totally different worldview. Then if they're on X and and seeing the the actual flow of arguments, yeah, the actual evidence. Well, what was the pushback? What happened when you guys released the Twitter files? Because I think the Twitter files is probably one of the most important things in this age of information for understanding the influence of government on social media and and on discourse. Because when when we found out that that was the case that the government was actually asking Twitter to remove posts that were factually wrong, they did the same thing to Facebook. They had them throttle pieces of one Tucker Carlson show. They suppressed the views by fifty percent. Yeah. Of factual information. Yeah, no, there was massive government interference in Twitter, but but like Twitter welcomed it. That's important. The old Twitter welcomed it. I mean, Twitter was controlled by by far left activists. Yeah. So. And and they they welcomed the government interference. The government they get paid by the government for it. That's crazy. They got paid for their time, correct? Yeah, the government millions of dollars for for suppressing information. So it's like and and Twitter was like thought it was like the FBI had this like this this sort of magic portal into the Twitter system, and and the but all of the communication that sort in this portal was ordered deleted after two weeks, which breaks federal FOILs. So we didn't know what was said because it was all deleted after two weeks. That's insane. Yeah. That's so crazy. It's so crazy that people thought that was okay. It's not. It's super not okay. No, it's super not okay. It's unconstitutional, and no one would want that. No one would want the
It means if you ask me, if you read our case book, yeah, the real Anthony Fauci, if that's correct, if the facts are in there, that's true. It's all referenced. You could find the sources and on top of it, it's never been sued for that book. Yeah, which doesn't make any sense. If he's just made up a bunch of lies, up he would get sued. Yes. So the guy's a monster. I think so. Yeah, I think so too. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I think like just looking at the lies that he told, the way he tried to define a function research to ran Paul in 2014. Yeah, I mean so you know to give Obama throw Obama give Obama some credit. He actually was like looking at this and say, "Hey, this is crazy," and and we and he so he he actually does stop the the like like the so-called gain-of-function again a propaganda word because what is the function that's talking about? Death. Right. Right. So if if if you actually use the right word, this is gain-of-function is death maximization. Right. Then, like, oh, you guys should read biology research into death maximization because that's what gain-of-function means. Yeah, means the function maximizes so that people can get it. Give it to people. That's and all by the way, what's that function again? Oh, the function is death. Oh, okay. All sort of death maximizing virus. If you do research on that, and the idea behind this research is so that we can cure these things, how come you don't have a fucking cure? So we cure cure for this disease again. Doesn't make any sense. Like you guys had no strategy for dealing with it if it got out, and so you have to like make up this this new vaccine in like record time, operation warp speed, release it to the people with very little testing. Fucking crazy. It was crazy. The whole thing's crazy, and we just went along with it. We need to the next level. Well, it's the science was fascinating to watch people step in line. One of the biggest obstacles of all time, of all time, of all time, and everybody got in line. And when you take it back to when pharmaceutical companies were able to advertise on media in the 1990s, that changed everything
A long history this. I think what is the number like one third of the drugs that the FDA approves gets pulled. It's fucking bananas. That's crazy. That's crazy. You're shitty at one third of the things that you say are okay, but yet you're trying to stop MDMA therapy for veterans. Yeah, they should let MDMA through honestly. That they could actually help a lot of people. It would help a lot of people. Help a lot of people. There's a lot of different therapies, specifically psilocybin ayahuasca. The fact you have to go to Mexico to get ayahuasca therapy for veterans. So many guys have talked to have gone over there and it's like completely giving them a clean slate, refresh their mind, and totally new perspective on life for alleviating depression, cured addictions, illegal. Yeah. Illegal. Oxycotton. Go get it. Yeah. And I know some people who like they're they're life is ruined by oxycotton. Oh yeah. Because I mean it it really depends on you know somebody's individual biochemistry. Like to me, like opioids are not addictive to me. Like you know I've had one operation or something, and they they they barely affect the my pain level, and they make me like itchy and uncomfortable. They make me stupid. Exactly. But like, so so like, like I can never get addicted to alcohol or or opioids. It's just impossible. Like because my biochemistry just does not have. But I love tasty food. Feel like you know. Yeah. You know if if there's I'm addicted to tasty food sure. But like there's like I can have a whole wall of wall of alcohol just there for decoration. Yeah. I feel the same way. I can easily quit alcohol. Yeah. I mean, I go weeks without having a drink and doesn't bother me at all. But I know some people that want drinking. They're off to the races. That's the difference in the the biochemical differences that we all have. Yeah. Yeah, I think that's the case with a lot of addictions. I'm not addicted to gambling, but I get it. I see it. I've seen it in people. But I'm I'm I have this version of things that are going to ruin my life. I I see that's why I've never tried cocaine. I just saw too many people. Yeah. It looks too fun. Like I
So you are just killing people. You are not saving anybody by protecting them from themselves. True, but it's a tricky situation because what do you do? Like if you just like say, okay, now everyone can sell all these people to be selling bullets. I MacPhie's quite a character. He was a character. We had him on the podcast when he was on the run. So he called in from undisclosed location when he was running from where was he? Costa Rica, where he was Belize, Belize. Right. So when he was running from the authorities, yeah, he called in. We had him on the podcast on the run, and I was asking him about these posts, like because there was an online account that was linked to him, where he had this very detailed laboratory, like super sophisticated, yeah, the best math, like a super genius, yeah, kind of math. I mean, he like he had like he had this lab, like he was making a wide range of drugs, and there was I I talked to actually like a reporter who who went down and like interviewed him in Belize, and and for some reason this was one of the scariest things. He's like he he was pure quite terrified. So one of the things about McAfee, he had I guess the trick where he would play Russian roulette with himself. So he would put a bullet in in the revolver, and he'd spin the spin the chamber. Clearly, he had like some like trick to you know know that it was not the some you know way that he knows it's not the right bullet, but but I do wonder like if McAfee's high, he does that, he's not always going to get the trick right, you know. You sure he had a trick? Yeah, so yeah, so so the correspondent reporter when he went to visit McAfee in Belize, McAfee took the revolver, put a put a bullet in the revolver, spun the chamber, and then pointed at his head and went click, and the reporter's like, "Please don't do this. Like this is insane, click, click, click, and then pointed the gun to the ground and next went click bang and shot pushed out a bullet in the ground. Geez, that's a hell of a party trick. Geez, that's the next level party trick. I've seen that deer hunter too many times. Remember that scene? When they were seeing? Yes, yeah. Woo
You know everything. You see, like the John Wick movie, where John Wick's like, you know, he he he wants to, he just wants peace, like you know, and and the John Wick just wants he just like less and less and less higher. They offer him like tons of money, like to eat, because they wanted to be an assassin, to keep being an assassin, like they they like they they like offer him tons of money. They threaten him, is like less and less. I'm not gonna be, I'm I'm I'm not, you know. And they killed his dog. That was a bad idea. They killed a little puppy, and the puppy was his ex wife's gift to him when she died of cancer. Yeah, great movie. Great movie, best revenge movie of all time. Because it's so ridiculous, he kills everybody. They kill everyone. And you rooting for him? Yeah. They shouldn't have killed his dog. Yeah, they fucked up. And they shouldn't have killed that squirrel. They shouldn't have killed that that squirrel. I mean, it's like how many how many cases we not heard about? You know. Oh, little guy. That squirrel clearly had a love relationship with that guy. He would hop all over him and climb on him. I mean, it was that was his pet. That squirrel thought of that man as his protector, as his companion. Yeah. There was nothing wrong with that, and in Texas, it's totally legal. You can have a fucking zebra out here. You can have whatever you want, and that's the argument for freedom. And you know the flip side. Yeah. You get a bunch of people with tigers in their backyard, which is not great. It's like it's just a fucking squirrel. It's not. It's not an alligator, right? Or or you know, crocodile, or something. Or chimpanzees. Did you see chimp crazy? A man, chimp, chimp, chimp, chimp, chimp eat your face. They will fuck you up. And they don't even the thing is they don't even kill you. They just cripple you. Chimps don't even kill people. Yeah. Which is really weird. They just bite your hands off and bite your dick off and tear your face apart. Yes. They want to leave you. They can kill you easily, but they want to just
What is wrong with you? Why you killing that squirrel? Doesn't make any sense. Yeah, and then to add insult to injury, there are bunch of people on the left who are like, actually, person that they're glad that some maggot squirrel got killed. Which is fucking squirrel. Yeah, the fucking squirrel has an idea. She's a floppy squirrel. Exactly. Well, it's it's a nice symbol because most most reasonable, compassionate people think that's terrible, and most people have yeah exactly think it's terrible. So I don't know. I mean, like, how people just go out there and vote for, you know, man, nothing else. Nothing else. Just vote for, you know, you know. Such a job of painting Trump as a monster. You know, they've taken the worst things that he's ever said, and he's not a perfect person. But guess what? No one's a perfect person. They don't exist. This purity test, like if Obama was a perfect person, he wouldn't be lying on stage. Exactly. You know, very fine people. Exactly. No one's going to be a perfect person, but the thing that they don't understand about Trump is he's so crazy that if you tell him, like he can't be president, like remember Obama did that during that White House Correspondents' Dinner. The whole thing that I'm, that I am the only president in the United States. You see Trump with the onions going. Okay, motherfucker. Yeah, that's one thing. I actually at that White House Correspondents' Dinner, where you know it's supposed to be roasting the president. Right. Trump's there. He's there. He's actually supporting. You know, it's basically you're the the the White House Correspondents' Dinner. You're there, in support, actually, of the president, in support of the press. Right. And it's meant to be you're roasting the president, like Trump's just there. He's like actually, you know, just he's like there as part of the support, and then they turn around and just start roasting Trump, and he's just sitting there like he's like, yo, I just came to the dinner. I wasn't. I I'm just here to support. We know it was because of the birth staff. Okay. Yeah. That's what it all was. It was all Trump was at
Most people were humiliated. He got angry, and he's like, "Yeah, all right, say I'm gonna be president. " I was thinking, I've been thinking about running for about fifteen fucking years. Right. Finally, I'm gonna run. Yeah. Yeah. I was about to move. Um, but yeah, I can sort of understand, like, making some jokes about, like, you know, if if you sort of passing jokes on Trump, but man, I was there at that dinner, and that they're actually on Trump so much it wasn't sane. Do with the reason why I would push back on that because I would say there's a bunch of different speakers, right? And Trump would obviously be a target, and if they all attack him, it's because he's like if you're gonna make fun of people in the audience, especially in the zeitgeist, that whole birth thing was big. Yeah. And most people are dismissing it as being a ridiculous conspiracy theory. So who the fuck is this guy saying this? And so you have eight to ten individual speakers that are writing monologues. Of course, they're all gonna hit Trump. Yeah, well, anyway, obviously it was a mistake. Yeah. They shouldn't have done that, and and but I, I invite people to watch that original source material, and I think if jokes are fine, you know, it's like, but but it's like, shouldn't be like it felt like he was the primary object of the roast. Yeah, but just that's that's not the whole point of the thing. Is the roast of the president, not the audience. The thing about it is like he's easy to roast. Yeah, and on top of that, Obama was like loved and cherished by the left. Yeah. And most of those people are on the left. This is only so far you can push. You know, you can't ask about the chef. You know, this like, yeah, what the chef? You can't say things you can't bring up. Yeah. Yeah. Wasn't that guy really good swimmer? Tell me what happened. Yeah. You can't bring that up. If you're gonna roast Hillary, you can't bring up the death count. Like Hillary, what's the best way to stay touch? You know. Yeah. If you're doing well, destroy the servers and port like bleach on the servers, like like computers
Majority, and then we're one. There, there were one party state, and then they they'll keep doing that obviously. They'll they'll keep stacking the deck by bringing in vast numbers of illegals into the swing states, keeps stacking it so that the next election, each successive election, will be worse than the last one. And that's what's happening. If and if you want to see, like, well, is this actually happening? Look at California. California is super majority Democrat, seventy percent Democrat. A month ago, they passed a law making it illegal to show ID in any election in California. So so so, a friend of mine went to vote, and and and Palo Alto, he was like, "Is this for real? He tried to show his ID, and they they reacted like like like like if you show across to a vampire, like no, we can't even look at that ID. It it is illegal for them to even look at your ID if you want to present it in California. Why any election at all, even like city council? What logical reason other than to cheat would you ever have that law? The reason is to cheat. That's but the only. This only like you can never make an argument any other way, and I think eighty four percent of people polled believe that you should show ID to vote. So it's against the will of the people. Yes, and and we are extremely rare. We're an outlier in not requiring ID. Basically, almost every country requires ID to vote. So so the the as soon as you make you ban ID for voting, it makes fraud impossible to prove. Because how do you trace the fraud? Right. Yeah, it's insane. It's insane. It's insane. And what I'm saying is, how is it legal? Is that is that what I'm saying? Is like this election is the last chance to preserve democracy in America. Mark my words. Everything they accuse Trump of, they are guilty of, and and if if Trump doesn't win, this will be the last real election in America. And we will if if if the common if the big common common puppet machine wins, they will legalize the illegals in swing states. There will be no swing states. Every election going forward will be a guarantee Democrat win, and it'll actually be worse than California. The reason it'll be worse than California is because the one thing that keeps California from being super crazy is that you
Family in, and then the Democrats give them all these benefits, like like tons of benefits, more benefits than if you than than citizens, literally. Yeah. Um, so so so you the the Republicans, the Democrats, for all these benefits, um, they want to get different families in, which the Democrats support and the Republicans don't. So they vote them, and you can look empirically at California and say, like, did did they vote Republican or Democrat in California? Oh, they voted Democrat. Reagan Reagan gave them amnesty in the '80s and '80s, and just the the state basically, except for Arnold, changed the state entirely blue. Yes. And Arnold was an exception because he was like a socially liberal famous guy. Yeah. And you know, didn't really imposing radical restrictions on any the people that were going to vote Democrat in the first place. The the whole thing is just it's bizarre to watch play out, because it just seems like no, this can't be actually what's happening. Did you see my conversation with Fetterman about it? Yeah. He was completely denial about it. I don't think there's that level of organization. What are you talking about? Exactly, just like like are because you can you break down. So like, are are any of these numbers wrong? Because we got these numbers from Homeland Homeland Security, government, dark gov. Okay. Right. We got it from the dark gov website. Has the government reported these numbers incorrectly? No, they have not. Those numbers are anything our our love. Um, so okay, so they haven't fact uh blown that numbers illegals to swing states. Yeah. Um, by passing the vote entirely, and uh, so that is factually true. They say like, well, what is their probable voting pattern? Um, okay, overwhelmingly Democrat in swing states. Um, and oh, and and then well, but do the Democrats actually want to fast track them for citizenship? Oh, yes, they do. Um, you can see talking on TV saying at at a rally this this year, saying he wants to fast track the and make uh all of them million or half a million, if he just quote was uh citizens as soon as possible. They're going to they are fast tracking citizenship as quickly as possible, so they can they can they they whether one thinks it's true or not, it won't matter because they will be fully able to vote. And
You know, half an hour, maybe an hour. Just where she just saying like nine seconds, but eventually she just runs out, even the runs out of nine seconds. Well, they wanted to limit it to an hour. Exactly. That was, but I was thinking of doing it initially before Trump came here. First of all, when they found out that there was a rumor, I never announced that Trump was coming. What I was going to do is just release it in my the way I like to do things. I don't like to tell anybody was coming on. It'll get big no matter what. If Trump was on, it would been huge. I'm like just put it out there, people go crazy. Yeah. But he apparently, or someone from his organization, someone's loose lips, and then it got out. So she contacted my management company, and they, her organization, her her campaign camp contacted us and said, "Would you ever?" And I said, "Yes." And they said she wants you to fly to where she is, and she's only willing to do 45 minutes, only 45. I mean that's. And I was like, oh no! I thought about doing. I'm like, maybe, maybe I can get a sense. Maybe I could convince her. Maybe I could coax her into doing more time. I just wanted to talk to her. Yeah. I don't give a fuck what we talk about. We talk about recipes. Exactly. Exactly. Just things like you just can't like you can't just output bullshit nonsense for three hours. Right. Um. So, but 45 minutes you could do. I thought maybe for 45 minutes I could get something out of it, but then when Trump came and did the three hours, I was like, you know what? It has to be like this. Yeah. The only way people's got to be this like three three hours and it should be in this room. Yeah, because this room is like a history of people. Subscribe actually. Yeah, it's good vibe. Yeah. Well, I actually, I subscribe to the idea that places have memory. Yeah. I think there's something real to that. That's why it feels feel that way actually. Yeah. I'm sure if you go to Diddy's house, probably feels weird. You feel weird walking around the house. Probably like, what the fuck happened here? Yeah. I
Illegal child rape of all time. Of all time. Of all time. Yeah, and looked like one. Looked like one. That's crazy. If you have posters of like, yeah, this guy looked like an evil child rape of all time. Yeah, that happened. Made to the grave, like yeah, got away with it. Yeah, got away with it till he died. They hid it from people until he died. Yeah. Yeah, there's that stuff's real, and no one wants to believe that stuff's real. Like here's here's a statistic that people need to consider when you think about illegal immigration. Do you mean kids are missing? I mean like missing and more. Kids that came across the border that are unaccounted for. I mean, it's one number like three hundred thousand or something like something crazy. Like yeah, let's say it's only ten percent of that. That's still insane. Yeah. That's insane. There's thousands and tens of thousands of kids that have been trafficked potentially. I mean, when you know that like sex trafficking and child trafficking is a real thing in the world, it's real. Yeah. So if you know that, this whole thing is fucking disgusting and terrifying. Yeah, absolutely. And people are just turning a blind eye to it because their ideology, the left-wing ideology, supports this idea that immigration is overall good and that you have to be a compassionate person to let these people in, and they're racist if you don't want twenty thousand immigrants from a war-torn country being imported into a town of thirty thousand people. Exactly. Completely changing the dynamic, and then but as long as they don't come to your town, exactly. That's it. They just they can just basically say, you know, when they say like, whatever, like twenty or thirty people, the most experienced people are hard to take. They kick them out. Yeah, they kick them out. Yeah, they kick them out. Exactly. So I'm like, yeah, sure. Anyone who who wants to have vast numbers of illegal, they have to be prepared to have them able to. Yeah. Or or bullshit. It's so crazy, and the thing about all of this is, if you don't have people that are willing to stand up and talk about it, if you don't exist, if R F K doesn't exist, if Tulsi Gabbard doesn't exist, if the Vayn
It's it's limited space, but we we've done massive amounts of software on top of that. So, like probably Tesla is in a better position to create a new phone. That's an Android or iPhone that maybe any company in the world, but it's not something we we wanted to do. And unless unless we we we have to, or something. What would be the situation where you would have to? Well, I think if if you know if Apple and Google slash Android, you know started doing really bad things, like I don't know, like censorship of apps or. I don't know, just creating people like just being like gatekeepers. You know that that's a really bad way that we're we're making a phone. Hmm. You know the the I've tried so many times to break loose the Apple ecosystem. I got an Android phone this time. Where I was like, that's it. I'm get because I love the Samsung phones, the Galaxy phone. It's incredible. Yeah. There's so much good stuff to it, but it's so hard to get off of the iMessage and the big one for me was FaceTime because supposedly the thing was you could have an Apple phone and send a link to FaceTime to an Android phone, and then you would click on that link and and you would just go to a web page you'd be able to use the FaceTime. Okay. It doesn't work. Okay. I tried to do it to myself, so I had an iPhone in one hand, Android phone in the other, and I'm sitting there with full Wi-Fi, full cell phone service, and I'm sending myself invitations for FaceTime communication between. It wasn't working. Video calls basically. You have to use WhatsApp. You have to use WhatsApp or something. You have to do something else that allows you to do that, or Instagram allows you to do it. There's like different ways you can make video calls outside of it, but it's inconvenient. Like with the iPhone, the iPhone, it's so simple. AirDrop, so simple. So many different things with that wall guard that Apple's created is perfect. They've done a fantastic job of making it really convenient for you to stay with Apple. Yeah. I fucking tried. I gave it a go for like a couple months. I'm like, I'm just gonna go straight Android. What are you gonna do? I'm gonna use signals from mass. Just then
You're funny, or you're wrong. I've had some like that. So, what are you doing in terms of like integrating Grok and and X and like what? What are your plans for artificial intelligence when you're doing that? Yeah, so Grok is available on X. You can just you look at like the little box with the slash icon and this sort of icon in the middle at the bottom of your sort of phone app, and you just tap on that and ask Grok anything. And you can type it, or you can ask it verbally. And yeah, you can also it's it's pretty funny like we actually allow humor, which is I think pretty cool. So you you could sort of I don't know, could like test it right now. See how it's going. Like, like what should we do? Like, roast. Like roast. What do you want to like? How first of all, like, what is it based on? It's a large language model, so like, where is it trained? It's trained on everything. On everything, on books, anything that could possibly be that's available in the world form. So it's essentially very similar to ChatGPT, other than it doesn't have like the word parameters built into it. Like Google was worse, right? Yeah. The Gemini was worse. Yeah, I mean Gemini was like if you ask Gemini like which one is worse, globally, nuclear war or misgendering Caitlyn Jenner, and we'd say like misgendering Caitlyn Jenner, and then even Caitlyn Jenner, wait, didn't say, no, that's insane. Definitely nuclear war is worse. See Caitlyn Jenner teasing Mark Cuban about transitioning. Yeah, that's hilarious. Caitlyn Jenner's base. Yeah, but that that is actually hilarious when someone who has transitioned is teasing Mark Cuban about transitioning. I mean, it is weird how much you look like Rachel Maddow. I mean, like he's using the same glasses. I don't know why he got those glasses. Think he's looking exactly the same. He's worth a lot of money. Why would he buy those stupid glasses? You can get some cool glasses. Yeah, well, it's like I'm serious because I don't even care what I look like. I'm just wearing these glasses because I'm intelligent. But why are you looking exactly like Rachel Maddow's glasses? Yeah, it's like what's the problem
Yes, we're the uproar is like watching a bunch of canines at a community pool screaming. This is unfair when they can't win with their backstroke. Well, that doesn't make any sense. Yeah. Okay, we need some work here. Yeah, it's interesting. It's going woke. Yeah, it's like defending the idea of transgender women. Now, okay, we need some work. How about this? More vulgar, but roast, but roast the preposterousness of having biological men who are pretending to be women, who are pretending to be women, competing against biological women. Yeah, I've ever seen situations where it's like somebody's just saying that they're a woman, but they're actually right, fully intact. You know. Yeah. So we've got a scenario of biological men just decided to take a walk on the feminine side or splash into women's swimming competition. It's like if you show up on a chili cook-off with a bowl of soup and say it's chili because you add some red food coloring. Sure, it's red, but it ain't chili, and your soup won't win any awards for heat. Yeah, it's okay. Yeah, it's very, very, very. It's dancing around the. Yeah, it is. Well, need some work. Yeah, need a little work. Well, humor is a weird one, right? It's like I think some humor, especially like some of the best humor, is kind of spontaneous, like in the moment humor. It's gonna It's gonna have a hard time deciding what people are gonna think is funny. Yeah. Yeah, but if you the the general rule, no. Yeah, the rule of rock is supposed to be that, like, if you ask for something provided what you're asking for is is legal, it should do it. Have you ever seen the video where they asked AI to create and lighten bunny, and they keep going and making it more light and essentially the bunny becomes god. So the bunny becomes a DMT trip. Totally, that's that's that's funny. That's kind of what I was kind of hoping would would happen here. Yeah, I have a video of that. I'll send it to Jamie because that that to me is pretty bizarre because it's like more getting more. I feel like God did that already. Maybe not. I just pulled it all back. Oh, you said pull it all back. Critics
Very nice kind human being, and helped me a lot, you know. And I think that's okay, you know. That's that's fine. So, if you want to make that choice as an adult, that's cool. There's a big difference between that and intact male who wants to identify as a woman who wants to walk around the locker room with his dick out. Yeah, exactly. There's people that do that. Yeah, because they get off on it. Exactly. So you just can't have something which is like, like sort of moral invulnerability, or like where you can like even questioning that is, you get attacked. Yeah, because obviously bad people will abuse that. Well, that's when I got thrown into this whole thing because there was a fighter who was a biological man who became transgender and was competing against women without telling them that they were a biological man. They said they didn't have to tell people because it was a medical condition. No. Yeah. That's not what it is. Right. It's not what it is. Like you can't say that, and in all sports, like if someone scores more points in basketball, well, that's unfair. But if someone beats the fuck out of someone because they're lying about being a biological male, that's crazy. You're literally allowing somebody get brain damage. Because you want to appeal to the woke fucking crazy people. It's wrong. Think it's right. Yeah. It's so strange that that that that's sort of the thing that repelled me. Yeah. When I got attacked for that, I'm like, "This is so not. I can't believe we're at this stage. " Where I'm saying, "Hey, I don't think it's cool if you pretend to be a woman and beat the fuck out of women and people who are out of line. " Like. Totally. Well, we're in we're we're in fantasy land now. Yeah. We're pretending. Yeah. Because it helps you. It helps you feel better. Yeah. Totally. It's just it's just strange time, and if it wasn't for something like Twitter, where this could be discussed, it's more. It's more mature. It's more coffee and gaming. Um, if it wasn't for Twitter, you know, at the early Twitters, you would be kicked off forever if you just dead name someone. Insane. Insane. Yeah.
You know Biden is Shawfis attack. I mean it was like it's like it's like Shawfis attack is not a common phrase. And literally every TV station, every newspaper is like Shawfis, Shawfis, like like a compilation of all the you know the news anchors going Biden Shawfis attack, Shawfis attack, Shawfis attack, Shawfis. It was absurd. And there's obviously a huge lie. He is in fact not Shawfis attack. As the public learned one week later, my favorite was Joe Scarborough. Yeah, that. Yeah was wild. Yeah, listen to me. This is the best version of Biden ever. The sharpest. What the fuck are you saying? And then after the debate, he's like, "What do we got? We got to get rid of him." Yeah, this is crazy. Like, what did you just say? Like, well, we literally, yes, exactly. Well, the other thing was they flat out lied when they decided JD Vance was weird. Yeah, remember that one? And then they just weirded ever weirded weirded. Oh, you don't want a weird guy? You know you have fucking Tim Walz. Is he weird? You don't think that guy's weird? He's weird in every way—the way he walks, the way he waves his hands. Yeah, you remind me of the clown emoji. He's bizarre. God, it's strange dude. It's it's I just don't understand why they made that choice. Yeah, it was a creeps. I just don't understand why they made that choice. There's a lot of other people that are qualified. I don't know why. In I read that Kamala Harris made that decision when she was sleep deprived, which is kind of hilarious. She said that, so she's kind of admitting she kind of fucked up. Yeah, I mean obviously she should have picked Shapiro. I mean governor Pennsylvania, like that would have been the no brainer, the no brainer. Yeah, like Pennsylvania's Lynchpin state. Do you think it's because he's Jewish, because of Shapiro, that like the anti-Palestinian people would probably or the anti-Palestinian invasion? I think it was an anti-Semitic. Yeah, it could be that they thought that was a liability because of all these pro-Palestinian people right now because of the situation in Israel. Yeah, completely
Official troops, right? You know, so what you said was like flat out wolf face lie. Flat out next level wolf face lie. If you know the video, so lie of the troops that were watching it take place. What the fuck are we? They're watching it in real time. They're being shot at. So crazy, crazy. But it just shows you the level of propaganda that we're being subject to, which is why people think Donald Trump is the devil. Because the machine has gone all out as far as it can go with lawfare, with propaganda, with lies, with just pushing as much in this direction as humanly possible. Connecting it to the Nazi rally, every step of the way. No wonder why boomers are like rabid. Like you got to keep this Nazi out of office. Right, just exactly. If if what you get is like if entire exposure is like mainstream media, so the all your information sources that Trump is basically Hitler, then and you have no and your friend group is is has that same information, you have no counterbalancing opinion. Right. So then, then they they actually just think like Trump is is Hitler, even though it's it's like a little strange he didn't do Hitler things the last four years. Yeah. You know, like if you Hitler, why didn't do Hitler things when he was president for four years? Right. Like the reason you know we we we hate Hitler because of like he started wars in genocide, not because he was a snappy dresser, you know. Um, you know, and I'm like, uh, so tell me about the wars in genocide that Trump did. Right. I don't remember that, and he was president for four years. So this it's insane. It makes no sense. Well, also his campaigning, stopping all the wars. Yeah, it's like his primary concern. Exactly. The war mongers like Dick Cheney hate him. Yeah, because they love war. Well, they profit off. They profit off war. Yeah. Yes. Which is insane. Insane. Yeah, and that this is happening right in front of everybody's face. Yeah, the war profiteers hate Trump. Yeah. Just fucked up. I mean, it's like like like we should be like, yeah, we let's vote for the guy that the war profiteers hate. That sounds like a great idea. The wild thing with Dick Cheney and Doris Com
The election year, yeah, but it's the punishment. It's like you step outside the line, you supported the other guy, yeah. You, the problem is you'll just, you'll just never, you'll just never get it cold again for whatever, you know, cause whatever it is, yeah, which is crazy. That's the issue. I mean, we used to allow people to be a Republican and still be a movie star, like Clint Eastwood, Reagan, yeah, but Clint Eastwood, yeah, like during the Obama administration, Clint Eastwood was like an outspoken Republican, and yet was, you know, a giant movie star, and people was like, "Ah, it's Clint." It was allowed. You were allowed to have. There was a variety of different opinions. There was a variety of different opinions. You were allowed to have, but now you're not. Now it's just like, and once Trump Trump got into office, he became this focal point where all logic was thrown out the window, and it's just Trump is bad. You have to attack Trump. Trump is right-wing bad. Everyone right-wing is bad. Christians bad. Yeah. It's just strange. Yeah, exactly. So, well, once again, man, I think this is the last election if Trump doesn't win. This is the last election. I think you're right. Yeah. I think you're right. I think people and a lot of people are waking up and realize that that have been lifelong Democrats, guys like Bill Ackman, guys like Chamath, exactly, Tulsi Gabbard switched over to the Republicans. Like there's a lot of people who their whole life they've been left wing and they realize like I can't do this anymore. You're an extreme Democrat. Yeah. So yeah, yeah, it's not. It's not, man, and you know. I mean, I think the things we want are just pretty basic. You know, it's like we want individual liberties, and we want opportunity. We want America to remain remain the land of freedom and opportunity. So we maximize people's personal freedom. The government can't barge into your house and kill your fucking pet. That's just fucked up. And you know, and and that you succeed is a function of your of your hard work and talent, not anything else, not race, religion, sex doesn't matter. You know. Yes. The basics stuff,
Government efficiency agency. The government, yeah. I mean, call it whatever you want. What do you want to call it? What do you call it? I mean, I think the funny name is is the O.G. the the department of government. Department of government efficiency. Yeah, I mean that idea is is pretty simple. That like we've got this this suffocating mass of federal bureaucracy, and we need to you know that is and the government government spending is like bankrupting the country. You know our interest payments on national debt now exceed the defense department budget. So which is and the defense department budget is like trillion dollars a year. Interest payments on our on national debt are now higher than the the defense department budget, and and growing like every month. So it's like it's not like like basically we're on a path the to bankrupting the country. We're on a path to bankrupting. So we have to cut government spending, or just gonna bankrupt just like person would that overspends, and then but it's even worse than that. Like we're spending money on these like these government agencies, and I like asked I actually asked the guy like how many government agencies are there, and it it the government isn't even sure how many government agencies there are. Like so, so it's like somewhere around four hundred and fifty depending on what you call an agency. So there there are so there at the federal level, so that that's almost twice as many agencies as as years that America has existed. So we're creating agencies at roughly two agencies a year. Wow. Yes. So this isn't saying I bet there's like I I wonder if there's even one person who could even name all four hundred and fifty agencies at the federal level. The might be only one, but it's hardly anyone that just say I bet most people couldn't even name like a hundred. You know, so this is this is this is crazy. So we've got this suffocating, this vast suffocating federal bureaucracy that just gets bigger every year, and and eventually gets to the point where everything is illegal. Can't get anything done. So so what can be done? Like with obviously the president has a lot of power, but how much power and what can be done in terms of like eliminating agencies, eliminating waste, eliminating? Yeah, well, I mean, so like if if Congress has created an agency, then I mean, often if you look at the law
In the past, what is sort of the cleansing for rules and regulations is war, because like like we're going to lose if we don't kind of clear the decks. But we haven't really had an existential threat of war in the U. S. We've had prosperity for a long time, which has resulted in a massive buildup of rules and regulations every year, and to the point where, like, like everything's legal. You know, it's not like any one regulation is the problem. It's like it's like a glove being tied down by a million little strings. It's not like any one string is the problem, but you got a million of them. So, we we've we've got to clear the decks here, and and I I'm not saying we shouldn't have regulators. I'm just saying we we we've gone way too far. It's one should think of regulators like like referees on a field, you know, a sports field. You don't want to have no no refs. You want to have some number of refs, but you you don't you don't want to have way more refs than players, right? You You don't want to be like, well, you know, the running back couldn't couldn't complete the pass because there were too many regulators in the way because the football field's full of regulators. Yeah, you know, it's like you can't even play the game. Right, that's the issue we've got right now. Well, that's a great analogy. Yeah, can imagine a football field that's filled. It's just like the football field's full of refs. Yeah, you can't run past them. Yeah, yeah. That I've seen criticism of this idea of you coming up with this department of like firing a bunch of people and what would happen and how would that work, but the criticism doesn't make any sense to me because if there is, if you measure, if you can prove that there's a lot of wasted time and resources, which I think is pretty easy to do, yeah, and if you could say that this is not the most efficient, like the most efficient business is generally private business, yeah, or of a company because they kind of have to be in order to stay profitable. Yeah, the government doesn't have to be profitable, right? They don't have to be efficient. They don't have competition. Yeah. So if you're making cars and your cars break
Quarter of the ways in in Western Europe because everyone is working for the government. Right, government's like fundamentally inefficient. So, the best examples are in North and South Korea, right? Yeah, look, people starving in North Korea and South Korea isn't incredibly prosperous. Yeah. So, and the same people just different operating system. Right. So, you know, it's just like you. You just want to move people from, you know, less productive things to more productive things. Um, where they, you know, because you can also say like in the limit, like let's just say let's consider the other direction where we move a whole bunch of people that were in the private sector doing making goods and services and move them into the government as regulators. Now they're stop making those goods and services. The so the stuff they're making is no longer available. Now they're just being regulators. Like is that a good thing? That's not a good thing. Doesn't sound good. No, it's not good. Doesn't sound like there's a real market for it. Like you're creating jobs that don't necessarily need to be there. There are all these fake jobs basically, and that doesn't make sense. So I look, we we got to do this because the the countries going bankrupt. Like we we don't take action, we're dollars going to do nothing, and the interest payments, which are already 23 of of 23 of all government income, income taxes, tariffs, everything, is just going to pay interest right now, and that number is continually rising. So if we don't do something, the entire government budget will be paying interest. There won't be money for anything. No, there won't be money for social security. Won't be money for Medicare. Nothing. That's what we had. That's what bankruptcy means. Yeah, that's such an insane concept. Yeah. Um. Let's like call wake up. Wake up. And somebody can tell me can can show me like pencil the math, show me how this works. I'd love to hear it, but but I'm just like let's. I'm looking at the numbers here, and I'm like, if we don't do something, America's toast. Won't be money for anything. Trump likes talk a lot about a lot is tariffs. Yeah. What What do you thoughts on tariffs? I know it's very controversial to even people the economists
The, there's there's no point you can't be. It's actually goods and services come from people working collectively doing a lot of hard work to produce the goods and services that you like, and that that you need. So, but we've become very accustomed these things happening overseas. I mean, America's still second biggest manufacturing in the world, so it's not not we don't make a lot of stuff, but we could make more. Probably should make more. I think we should value manufacturing a lot more in the United States than we currently do. Well, be very nice if we were completely self-sufficient. Like medicine, there's a bunch of different things. Yeah, manufacturing overseas was a huge problem during COVID because all the shipping was shut down. Yeah, I mean, you want to say like so there is there's a lot of merit to the economics of comparative advantage, so if you're completely self-sufficient, what that means is that you make all the stuff yourself, and and and even if some other country is really good at making something, you still make it yourself, which means you're going to have the inferior, more costly product domestically. Right, like Soviet Russia. Yeah, like trade trade improves prosperity. This is this is important. So you you don't actually want to be make everything yourself, and and you can you can run this like you can think of this for example on a on a micro scale, a micro scale, and or small scale, and then expand that and say where does at what point does the experiment no longer prove valid? Let's let's let's consider the case of you as an individual. Imagine you had to do everything yourself. You had to farm, you had to grow chickens, you had to do eggs, you've got to build your own house, you've got to do your own electrical repair, you're employing everything yourself, everything. How now that would be impossible. Okay, now expanded to you've got this 10 people, now you're going to have some some specialization of tasks. Okay, one person can be really good, you know, construction, another person be good at farming, and so but still, you know, 10 people is not enough. Like let's go to 100 people, now let's go to a billion people, and you still get the the economics of specialization, like like specialization of labor, where people become expert at particular thing. Still matters at a
Years, medium-term issues like five to ten years, longer-term issues like maybe twenty years. Longer term, I think there is a question if you have a robotic, highly fine meeting in life. If like computer can do everything better than you can, and the robot can do everything better than you can, but we're still we're a long way to go before that. And we're, you know, and I do think it's like eighty percent likely to be a good outcome, like maybe ninety. So, I think everyone's going to have their own like personal robot, like, and I and I think at some point, like, when you want to have your own personal C three PO R two D two, so it's going to be absolutely just like everyone has their own phone. Yeah, everyone will have their own robot buddy. Literally, well, it'll be great if it protects you. Like, if you walk down the street of New York City, you have a Terminator with you. Um, Terminator, hopefully, we got a robot. We don't want this to be the Platoon James Cameron. You know, we want more more Gene Roddenberry than than James Cameron movie situation. But it would be fascinating to watch some rich person walk down the street of New York City, flying by two giant Tesla robots, Jack Tesla robots, to protect you. Yeah, just fully robots. Somebody fully robot there to protect you from a bad neighborhood. Yeah, that would be very interesting. I mean, you could potentially see that. Yeah, restaurants probably have no robot rules. You can't bring a robot. The only robot, yeah, standing outside, robots standing by the table. Man, it's just going to be wild. It's going to be wild. Yeah, yeah, it's going to be really unpredictable. Like, yeah, I don't think. I mean, you probably have a pretty good sense of it, but I think most people don't understand the way that's coming. Yeah, it's kind of kind of completely drown society and change it forever. Yeah, I mean, it's we have like said, it's not like it's not going to happen like overnight, but it's twenty years from now. Like, it's still like twenty years from now. I think it's going to be more more humanoid robots than there are humans. Really. Yes. More humanized. Well, that's so crazy. Like, so that's
The antenna is like the more area you have, the more photons you can catch. So, but we have it directly to cell capable as well. We're just we've been watching that will turn on in a few months. That that will actually connect directly to cell phone, unmodified. But but because the cell phone is much worse antenna than a dedicated antenna, it'll be about a hundred times less bandwidth. But still, you know, be able to do text messages, you know, pictures, like medium resolution videos, that kind of thing. One of the cool things about the new phone, the new iPhone, the iPhone sixteen, I got it and I was in the mountains last month and I was text messaging with satellites. Yeah. iMessages right and receiving. But just text. Yeah, just text. Yeah. Still pretty impressive. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, what are we what are we going to be looking at a hundred years from now? I mean, when you a hundred years from now, civilization's around. Yeah, that'll be one. Yeah. Yeah. What what are the chances that we fucked this whole thing up? Fifty percent. It's hard to say. I mean, I guess not. I like. I don't think civilization will be totally destroyed, unless it's like some really massive global nuclear war. But so, I mean, Stephen Hawking used he would say that there was like at least one percent chance of civilization every century that was his estimate. But there's a much bigger chance of civilization being less capable than it is today. So you say like well, because you look and say, you know, these various civilizations in history, whether it's like ancient Mayans or the, you know, Egyptians, the Romans, like they, there's like a life cycle of civilization. They reach the peak and then they start subsiding. So, so I think a bigger question is like, well, will our technology level be better worse than it is today in a hundred years? I think it's probably going to be better. I think, but any estimate are are going to be so, there's so many dependencies like like estimate. I think is, I'm not sure it has any meaning because it's like there's so many things that can happen in a hundred years. Well, the logical hope is always that people pay attention to history and they recognize the patterns and how civilizations have collapsed. Yeah. And they recognize what's going wrong in
I'm not afraid of the dark.
