This is how intelligence is made—a new kind of factory, generator of tokens, the building blocks of AI. Tokens have opened a new frontier, turning data into knowledge and drawing on all we have learned. Tokens are harnessing a new wave of clean energy and unlocking the secrets of the stars. Virtual worlds—they help robots learn, and in the physical world, perfect forging new paths and clearing the way for powerful harvests. In the moments that matter, tokens are already there, and in the miles between, they never stop. They work where human hands cannot, so we may all breathe easier, and the smallest hearts reach strong. Tokens are helping us create new ground, on a scale never attempted, to empower the world, so we can reach beyond the one, the ancient, well beyond it. Together, we take the next great leap into a bright new future, built for all mankind. And here is where it all begins. Welcome to the stage, Nvidia founder and CEO Jensen Huang. Welcome to GTC. I just want to remind you, this is a tech conference. All these people lining up so early in the morning. All of you in here—it's great to see you. GTC, GTC. We're going to talk about technology. We're going to talk about platforms. Nvidia has three platforms. You think that we mostly talk about one of them? It's related to CUDA X. Our systems is another platform, and now we have a new platform called AI factories. We're going to talk about all of them, and most importantly, we're going to talk about ecosystems. But before I start, let me thank our pre-game show hosts. I thought they did a great job. Sarah Go of Conviction, Alfred Lim, Sequoia Capital, Nvidia's first venture capitalist, Gavin Baker, Nvidia's first major institutional investor. These three people are deep in technology, deep in what's going on, and of course, they have just a really broad reach of technology ecosystems. And then, of course, all of the VIPs that I have selected to join us today, all star team. I want to thank all of you for that.
I also want to thank all the companies that are here. Nvidia, as you know, is a platform company. We have technology, we have our platforms, we have rich ecosystem, and today there are probably a hundred percent of the hundred trillion dollars of industry here. Four hundred and fifty companies sponsored this event. I want to thank you. A thousand technical sessions, two thousand speakers. This is this conference is going to cover every single layer of the five-layer cake of artificial intelligence, from land power and shell the infrastructure to chips to the platforms, the models, and of course the most important and ultimately what's going to take this industry taken off is all of the applications. What it all began, it all began here. This is the twentieth anniversary of CUDA. We've been working on CUDA for twenty years. For twenty years, we've been dedicated to this architecture. This revolutionary invention, SIMD single instruction, multi-threaded, writing scalar code could spawn off into multi-threaded application, much much easier to program than SIMD. We recently added tiles so that we could help people program tensor cores and the structures of mathematics that are so foundational to artificial intelligence today. Thousands of tools and compilers and frameworks and libraries in open source. There's a couple of hundred thousand public projects. CUDA literally is integrated into every single ecosystem. This chart basically describes a hundred percent of Nvidia's strategies. You've been watching me talk about this slide from the very beginning, and ultimately the single hardest thing to achieve is the thing on the bottom: install base. It has taken us twenty years to now have built up hundreds of millions of GPUs and computing systems around the world that run CUDA. We are in every cloud. We are in every computer company. We serve just about every single industry. The install base of CUDA is the reason why the flywheel is accelerating. The install base is what attracts developers who then create new algorithms that achieve a breakthrough. For example, deep learning. There are so many others. Those breakthroughs lead to entirely new markets, which build new ecosystems around them with other companies that join, which create a larger install base. This flywheel, this flywheel is now accelerating. The number of downloads of Nvidia libraries is incredibly accelerating. It's at a very large scale and growing faster than ever. This flywheel is what makes this computing platform able to sustain so much applications, so many new breakthroughs, but most importantly, it also enables these infrastructures to have extraordinarily useful life. And the reason for that
Everybody in the world. This combination of dynamics is what makes the NVIDIA architecture expand its reach, accelerating its growth at the same time driving down computing cost, which ultimately encourages new growth. So CUDA is at the center of it. But our journey to CUDA actually started 25 years ago. G forces. I know how many of you grew up with G forces. G forces NVIDIA's greatest marketing campaign. We attract future customers starting long before you could afford to pay for it yourself. Your parents paid. Your parents paid. Your parents paid for you to be NVIDIA customers, and every single year they paid up year after year after year until someday you became an amazing computer scientist and became a proper customer, a proper developer. But this is this is the house that G forces made. 25 years ago, we started our journey, which led to CUDA. 25 years ago, we invented the programmable shader, a perfectly obvious invention to make an accelerator programmable, the world's first programmable accelerator, the pixel shader. 25 years ago, that led us to explore further and further. 20 years later, five years later, the invention of CUDA, one of the biggest investments that we made, and we couldn't afford it at the time, and it consumed the vast majority of our company's profits, was to take CUDA on the back of G forces to every single computer. We dedicated ourselves to create this platform because we felt so much, we felt so strongly about its potential. But ultimately, the company's dedication to it, despite the hardships in the beginning, believing in every single day for for 13 generations of 20 years, we now have CUDA installed everywhere. The pixel shader led to, of course, the revolution of G forces. And then 10 years ago, we introduced about 10 years ago, what is it? Eight years ago, we introduced RTX, a complete redesign of our architecture for the modern era of computer graphics. G forces brought CUDA to the world. G forces therefore enabled Alex Krushchevsky and Elias Susskevarin, Jeff Ten, Andrew Ang, and so many others to discover that the GPU could be their friend in accelerating deep learning. It started the big bang of AI. 10 years ago, we decided that we would fuse programmable shading and introduce two new ideas: ray tracing, hardware ray tracing, which is incredibly hard to do, and a new idea at the time. Imagine
Computer graphics comes to life. Now, what do we do? We fuse controllable three D graphics, the ground truth of virtual worlds, structured data. Remember this word: structured data of virtual worlds, of generated worlds. We combine three D graphics, structured data, with generative AI, probabilistic computing. One of them is completely predictive; the other one, probabilistic, yet highly realistic. We combine these two ideas. Combine these two ideas: controlled structured data, controlled perfectly, and yet generating at the same time. And as a result, the content is beautiful, amazing as well as controllable. This concept of using structured information and generative AI will repeat itself in one industry after another industry after another industry. Structured data is the foundation of trustworthy AI. Well, this is going to scare you a little bit. I'm going to flip the slide, and don't gasp. So we're going to go through this dramatic for the rest of the time. This is my best slide. Every time I ask my I ask the team what's my best slide, repeatedly this was it. They say, "Don't do it, Jensen. Don't do it. " I said, "No. " This these seats are free for some of you. So this is your price of admission. So this is this is structured data. You've heard it: SQL, Spark, pandas, Velox, some of these really really important, very large platforms. Snow, Snowflake, DataBricks, EMR, Amazon EMR, Azure Fabric, Google Cloud, BigQuery. All of these platforms are processing data frames. These data frames are giant spreadsheets, and they hold all of life's information. This is the structured data, the ground truth of business. This is the ground truth of enterprise computing. Well, now we're going to have AI use structured data, and we better accelerate the living daylight out of it. It used to be okay, and we would, you know, of course, we would accelerate structured data so that we could do more, we could do it more cheaply, we could do it more frequently per day, and keep the company running at a much more synchronized way. However, in the future, what's going to happen is these data structures are going to be used by AI, and AI is going to be much much faster than us. Future agents are going to use structured databases as well, and then of course the unstructured databases, the
The invention of SQL, one of the most important domain-specific language of all time, is accelerating Watson X data with QDF. Let's take a look at it. Sixty years ago, IBM introduced the System 360, the first modern platform for general-purpose computing, launching the computing era. Then, SQL, a declarative language to query data, without requiring the computer to be instructed step by step, and the data warehouse, each the foundations of modern enterprise computing. Today, IBM and NVIDIA are reinventing data processing for the era of AI by accelerating IBM Watson X .dot data engines with NVIDIA GPU computing libraries. Data is the ground truth that gives AI context and meaning. AI needs rapid access to massive datasets. Today's CPU data processing systems can't keep up. Nestle makes thousands of supply chain decisions every day. They're ordered to cache data mart, aggregates every supply order and delivery event across global operations in 185 countries. On CPUs, Nestle refresh the data mart a few times a day with accelerated Watson X .dot data running on NVIDIA GPUs. Nestle can run the same workload five times faster at 83 percent lower cost. The next computing platform has arrived: accelerated computing for the era of AI. NVIDIA accelerates data processing in the cloud. We also accelerate data processing on-prem. As you know, Dell is the world-leading computer systems maker, and they also are one of the world's leading storage providers. And they worked with us to create the Dell AI data platform that integrates QDF and QVS to create an accelerated data platform. Well, for the era of AI, and this is an example of what they did with NTT Data, huge speedup. This is cloud, Google Cloud, and Google Cloud. As you know, we've been working with Google Cloud for a very long time. We accelerate Google's Vertex AI. We now accelerate big query, really important framework and really important platform. And this is an example of our work together with Snapchat, where we reduced the cost of computing by nearly 80 percent. When you accelerate data processing, when you accelerate computing, you get the benefit of speed. You get the benefit of scale. But most importantly, you also get the benefit of cost. And so all of those come together as one. It was originally called Moore's Law. Moore's Law was about getting performance doubling every couple of years. It's another way of saying, so long as the price remains about the same
The base ten, the cloud strike, Puma Salesforce, they're not our customers, but they're customers. Developers that we integrated the NVIDIA technologies into, that we can then land on the clouds. Our relationship with cloud service providers, are essentially us bringing customers to them. We integrate our libraries, we accelerate workloads, and we land those customers in the clouds. And so, as you could see, most of our cloud service providers love working with us, and they're always asking us to land the next customer on their cloud. And I just want to know, there are a lot of customers. We're going to accelerate everybody, and so there will be lots and lots of customers we will land in your cloud. Just be patient with us. And so this is Google Cloud, this is AWS. We've been working with AWS a long time, and one of the areas, one of the, one of the things I'm super excited about this year, is we're going to bring Open AI to AWS. And so it's going to drive enormous consumption of cloud computing at AWS. It's going to expand the reach, expand the compute of Open AI, and as you know, they are completely compute constrained. And so AWS, we accelerate EMR, we accelerate SageMaker, we accelerate Bedrock, NVIDIA integrated really deeply into AWS. They were our first cloud partner, Microsoft Azure, NVIDIA's A100 supercomputer, was the the first one we built was for NVIDIA. The first one we installed was at Azure, and that led to the inter the the big successful partnership with Open AI. But we've been working with Azure for quite a long time. We accelerate Azure cloud nodes, their AI foundry, we partner deeply with, we accelerate Bing search, we work with them on Azure regions. This is one of the areas that is incredibly important. As we continue to expand AI throughout the world, one of the capabilities that we offer is confidential computing. That in confidential computing, you want to make sure that even the operator cannot see your data, even the operator cannot touch or see your models. Confidential computing, NVIDIA GPUs are the first ones in the world to do that. Is now able to support confidential computing and protected deployment of these very valuable Open AI models and and traffic models throughout clouds and different regions, all because of our confidential computing. Confidential computing super important. And here's an example, where we have different customers that we work with. Synopsys, a great partner
What Nvidia has done is this, and you're going to see this theme over and over again. Nvidia is vertically integrated, the world's first vertically integrated, but horizontally open company. And the reason that's necessary is very simple. Accelerated computing is not a chip problem. Accelerated computing is not a system problem. Accelerated computing has a missing word. We just never say it anymore. Application acceleration. You if I could make a computer run everything faster, that's called a CPU. But that's run out of steam. The only way for us to accelerate applications going forward and continue to bring tremendous speed up, tremendous cost reduction, is through application or domain specific acceleration. I dropped that phrase in the in the front, and therefore it just became application accelerated computing, and that is the reason why Nvidia has to be library after library, domain after domain, vertical after vertical. We are a vertically integrated computing company. There is no other way. We have to understand the applications. We have to understand the domain. We have to understand fundamentally the algorithms, and we have to figure out how to deploy the algorithm. In whatever scenario it wants to be deployed, whether it's a data center, cloud, on prem, at the edge, on a robotic system, all of those computing systems are different. And finally, the systems and chips. We are vertically integrated. What makes it incredibly powerful? The reason why you saw all this slide is because Nvidia is horizontally open. We work and integrate Nvidia technology into whatever platform you would like us to integrate into. We offer you the software. We offer you libraries. We integrate with your technology so that we can bring accelerated computing to everybody in the world. Well, this GTC is really a great demonstration of that. You know, most of the time, most of the time, you'll see me talk about these verticals and I'll use some examples. But in every single case, whether it's automotive, by the way, financial services, the largest percentage of attendees at this GTC is from the financial services industry. I know. I'm hoping it's developers, not traders. Guys. Here's here's here's one thing I wanted to say, and so in the audience represents Nvidia's ecosystem, upstream of our supply chain and downstream of our supply chain, and we work, we think about our supply chain upstream and downstream, and just so exciting that our entire upstream supply chain this last year. Irrespective of whether you're a 5
Years of AI have different platforms that NVIDIA provides. Industrial, we are completely resetting and starting the largest buildout of human history. And most of the world's industries, building AI factories, building chip plants, building computer plants, are represented here today. Media, entertainment, gaming of course, real time AI platform, so that we can translation, broadcast support, live live games, live video, enormous amount of it will be augmented with AI. We have a we have a platform called Holoscan, quantum. There's 35 different companies here building with us the next generation of quantum GPU hybrid systems, of retail and CPG, using NVIDIA for supply chain, using creating agentic shopping systems, AI agents for customer support. A lot of work being done here. 35 trillion dollar industry, robotics, 50 trillion dollar industry manufacturing. NVIDIA's been working in this area for a decade now, building three computers, the fundamental computers necessary to build robotics systems. We are integrated with, working with literally every single company that we know of building robots. We have 110 robots here at the show, and then telecommunications. About as large as the world's IT industry, about two trillion dollars. We see, of course, base stations everywhere. It's one of the world's infrastructures. It was the infrastructure of the last generation of computing. That infrastructure is going to get completely reinvented, and the reason for that is very simple. That base station, which is, it does one thing, which is base station, is going to be an AI infrastructure platform in the future. AI will run at the edge, and so lots of lots of great great discussion there. And our platform there is called Aerial, our AI RAM, big partnership with Nokia, big partnership with T-Mobile, and many others. At the core of our business, everything that I just mentioned, computing platforms, but very importantly, our CUDA X libraries. Our CUDA X libraries is the algorithm, the algorithms that NVIDIA invents. We are an algorithm company. That's what makes us special. That what that's what makes it possible for me to be able to go into every single one of these industries. Imagine the future and have the world's best computer scientists describe and solve problems, re factor, re express it, and turn it into a library. We have so many. I think we have at this show, we are announcing a hundred, a hundred libraries, some 70 libraries may be
Everything you saw was a simulation. Some of it was principal solvers, fundamental physics solvers. Some of it was AI surrogates, AI physical models, and some of it was physical AI robotics models. Everything was simulated. Nothing was animated. Nothing was articulated. Everything was completely simulated. That is what fundamentally NVIDIA does. It is through the connection of understanding of the algorithms with our computing platforms that we're able to open up to unlock these opportunities. NVIDIA is a vertically integrated computing company with open horizontal integration with the world. So that's CUDA X. Well, just now you saw a whole bunch of companies. You saw Walmart and you know, there's L'Oréal, incredible companies, established companies, JPMorgan, and Roche. These are companies in companies that define society today. Toyota is here. These are some of the largest companies in the world. It is also true that there's a whole bunch of companies you've never heard of. These are companies we call them AI natives. A whole bunch of small companies. This list is gigantic. I couldn't. This is just a little tiny, tiny bit of it. And I couldn't decide whether to show you more, show you less, and so I made it so that you couldn't see any. And and nobody's feelings are hurt. However, inside this list are a bunch of brand new companies. They're companies like, for example, you might have heard a couple of them, OpenAI and Trovic. But there's a whole bunch of others. There's a whole bunch of others, and they serve different verticals. Something happened in the last two years, particularly this last year. We've been working with the AI natives for a long time, and this last year it just skyrocketed. I'll explain to you why it happened. These this industry skyrocketed. A hundred fifty billion dollars of investment into venture investment into startups, the largest in human history. This is also the first time that the scale of the investments went from millions of dollars, tens of millions of dollars, the hundreds of millions of dollars, and billions of dollars. And the reason for that is this is the first time in history that every single one of these companies needs compute and lots and lots of it. They need tokens, lots and lots of it. They're either need they're either going to create and build and create tokens and generate tokens, or they're going to integrate, add value to tokens that are available created
Is different in so many different ways, but the one thing that is very clear: the impact that they're making, the the incredible value that they're delivering already is quite tangible. AI natives, all because we reinvent computing. Just like during the PC revolution, a whole bunch of new companies were created. Just as just as during the internet revolution, a whole bunch of companies were created. The mobile cloud, a whole bunch of companies were created. Each one of them had their own standards, and I'm we're talking about one of the major standards that just happened, incredibly important. And this generation, we also have our own large number of very very special companies. We reinvent computing; it's time to reason. There's going to be a whole new crop of really important companies, consequential companies for the future of the world. The Google's, the Amazon's, the Meta's, consequential companies that have come as result of the last computing platform shift. We are now at the beginning of a new platform shift. But what happened in the last couple of years? Well, we've been watching, as you know, we've been working on deep learning, working on AI. The big bang of modern AI, we were right there at the spot, and we've been advancing the field for quite some time. But why the last two years? What happened in the last two years? Well, three things. ChatGPT, of course, started the generative AI era. It's able to not just understand, perceive and understand. It's able to also translate and generate generation of unique content. I showed you the fusion of generative AI with computer graphics and brought computer graphics to life. You guys, just everybody in the world should be using ChatGPT. I know I use it every single morning, use it plenty this morning. And so, ChatGPT was the generative AI era. The second, by the way, generative generative computing versus the way we used to do computing. It's not. It's generative AI is a capability of software, but it has profoundly changed how computing is done. Computing used to be retrieval based. Now it's generative. Keep that thought in mind when I talk about certain things, and you realize why it is that everything that we do is going to change how computers are architected, how computers are provided, how computers are going to be built out, and what is the meaning of computing altogether. Generative AI,
Reason and AI that reason now became AI that can actually do work, very productive work. The amount of computation in the last two years, we know that everybody in this room knows the computing demand for NVIDIA GPUs off the charts. Spot pricing is skyrocketing. You couldn't find a GPU you tried, and yet in the meantime, we're shipping GPUs out, incredible amounts of it, and demand just keeps on going up. There's a reason for that. This fundamental inflection, finally, AI is able to do productive work, and therefore the inflection point of inference has arrived. AI now has to think in order to think, it has to inference. AI now has to do in order to do, it has to inference. AI has to read in order to do, so it has to inference. It has to reason, it has to inference every part of AI. Every time it has to think, it has to reason, it has to do, it has to generate tokens, it has to inference. Its way past training now. It's in the in the field of inference. So the the inference inflection has arrived. At the time when the amount of tokens, the amount of compute necessary, increased by roughly ten thousand times. Now when I combine these two, the fact that since the last two years the computing demand, computing demand of the work has gone up by ten thousand times, and the amount of usage, the amount of usage has probably gone up by a hundred times. People have heard me say, I believe that computing demand has increased by one million times in the last two years. It is the feeling that we all have. It is the feeling every startup has. It's the feeling that OpenAI has. It's the feeling that Anthropic has. If they could just get more capacity, they could generate more tokens. The revenues would go up. More people could use it. The more advanced, the smarter the AI could become. We are now at that positive flywheel system. We have we have reached that moment. The inflection, the inference inflection has arrived. Last year at this time, I said that where I stood at that moment in time, we saw about five hundred billion dollars. We saw five hundred billion dollars of very high confidence demand and purchase orders for Blackwell and Ruben through 2026. I said that last year. Now I don't know if you guys feel the same way, but five hundred billion dollars is an enormous amount
And so the first part was last year was all about AI inference, and it drove this inflection point. Simultaneously, we were very pleased last year that NVIDIA has come to Nvidia, that MSAL MetaFSL has chosen Nvidia. And meanwhile, meanwhile, and as a collection, as a group, this represents one third of the world's AI compute open source models. Open source models have reached near the frontier, and it is literally everywhere. And Nvidia, as you know, today, we're the only platform in the world today that runs every single domain of AI across every single one of these AI models in language and biology, and computer graphics, computer vision, and speech, proteins and chemicals, robotics and otherwise, edge cloud, any language, Nvidia's architecture is fundable for all of that and incredible for all of that. That allows us to be the lowest cost, the highest confidence platform. Because when you're building these systems, as I mentioned, a trillion dollars is an enormous amount of infrastructure. You have to have complete confidence that the trillion dollars you're putting down will be use, utilize, would be performant, would be incredibly cost effective, and have useful life for as long as you can see. That infrastructure investment you could make on Nvidia, you could make with complete confidence. We have now proven that it is the only infrastructure in the world that you could go anywhere in the world and build with complete confidence. You want to put it in any of the clouds? We're delighted by that. You want to put it on prem? We're happy about that. You want to put it in any country, anywhere? We're delighted to support you. We are now a computing platform that runs all of AI. Now our business already starting to show that sixty percent of our business is hyperscalers, the top five hyperscalers. However, even within that top five hyperscalers, some of it is internal AI consumption. The internal AI consumption really important work like recommender systems, tables, and collaborative filtering and content filtering. It's moving towards deep learning and large language models. Search, moving to deep learning, large language models. Almost all of these different hyperscale workloads are now moving shifting towards a workload that Nvidia GPUs are incredibly good at. But on top of that, because we work with every AI lab, because we work with every AI, we accelerate AI, every AI model, and because we have a large ecosystem of AI natives that we work with
NVF P4 without loss of precision, but gigantic boost in performance and energy efficiency. We've also been able to use NVF P4 for training. So NVLink 72, NVF P4, the invention of dynamo tensor R T L Lm, a whole bunch of new algorithms. We even built a supercomputer to help us optimize kernels and help us optimize our complete stack. We call it DGX Cloud. We invested billions of dollars of supercomputing capability, help us create the kernels, the software that made inference possible. Well, the results all came together, and people told people used to tell me, but inference is so easy. Inference is the ultimate hard. Inference is ultimate hard, and it's also ultimate important because it drives your revenues. And so this is the outcome. This is from Simonelis. This is the largest, most comprehensive sweep of AI that has AI inference that has ever been done. And what you see here on the left, on on this side, on this side, is tokens per watt. Tokens per watt is important because every data center, every single factory, by definition, is power constrained. A one gigawatt factory will never become two. It's physically constrained. The laws of atoms, the laws of physicality, and so that one gigawatt of data center, you want to drive the maximum number of tokens, which is the production, the product of that factory. So you want that, you want to be on top of that curve as high as you want. This the x axis is the interactivity, the speed of inference, the speed of each inference. The faster you can inference, the faster you could of course respond. But very importantly, the faster you can inference, the larger the models, the more context you can process, the more tokens you can think through. This axis is the same as smartness of the AI. And so this is the throughput of the AI. This is the smartness of the AI. Notice the smarter the AI, the lower your throughput makes sense. You're thinking longer. Okay, and so this axis is the speed, and I'm going to come back to this. This is important. This is where I torture all of you. But it's too important. Every CEO in the world, you watch, every CEO in the world will study their business from now on in the way I'm about to describe. Because this is your token factory. This is
Is because of extreme code design. I'm very happy that he named us. There was a monkey king, token king. Well, we take we take all of our software, and I told you we vertically integrated, but we horizontally open. We vertical integration, horizontally open. We integrate all of our software and all of our technology, all of what we package it up and integrate it into the world's inference service providers. And these these companies are growing so fast. They're growing so fast. Fireworks last year together. They're just growing so incredibly fast. A hundred times in the last year, they are token factories. And the effectiveness, the performance, and the token cost production capability for their factories is everything to them. And this is what happened. This is we updated their software, same system, and notice their token speeds incredible. The difference before before Nvidia updated everything and all of our algorithms and software and all the technology that we bring to bear about seven hundred tokens per second average went to nearly five thousand seven times higher. And so this is the incredible power of extreme code design. I mentioned earlier the importance of factories. This is the importance of factory. Your data center it used to be a data center for files. It's now a factory to generate tokens. Your factory is limited no matter what. Everybody is looking for land, power, and shell. Once you build it, you are power limited. With that power limited infrastructure, you better make for darn sure that your inference because you know inference is your workload and tokens is your new commodity. That compute is your revenue. That you want to make sure that the architecture is as optimized as you can. In the future, every single CSP, every single computer company, every single cloud company, every single AI company, every single company period are going to be thinking about their token factory effectiveness. This is your factory in the future. And the reason why know that is because everybody in this room is powered by intelligence. And in the future, that intelligence will be augmented by tokens. So let me show you how we got here. On April six, two thousand sixteen, a decade ago, we introduced DGX one, the world's first computer designed for deep learning. Eight Pascal GPUs connected with the first generation NVLink, a hundred seventy teraflops in one computer, the world's first computer designed for AI research. With Volta, we introduced NVLink six, sixteen GPUs connected with full all-to-all bandwidth, operating as one giant
Systems compute demand continues to grow exponentially, and now Vera Rubin, architected for every phase of agentic AI, advancing every pillar of computing, including CPU, storage, networking, and security. Vera Rubin NVLink seventy-two, three point six exaflops of compute, two hundred sixty terabytes per second of all-to-all NVLink bandwidth. The engine supercharging the era of agentic AI. The Vera CPU rack, designed for orchestration and agentic workloads. The STX rack AI-native storage built with Bluefield four, scale out with Spectrum XCo package optics, increasing energy efficiency and resilience. An incredible new addition, the Rocks three LPX rack, tightly connected to Vera Rubin. Rocks LPU's massive on-chip SRAM, a token accelerator to the already incredibly fast Vera Rubin. Together, thirty-five times more throughput per megawatt. The new Vera Rubin platform, seven chips, five rack-scale computers, one revolutionary AI supercomputer for agentic AI, forty million times more compute in just ten years. Now in the in the good old days, when I would say Hopper, I would hold up a chip. That's just adorable. This is Vera Rubin. When we think Vera. When we when we think Vera Rubin, we think the entire system, vertically integrated, completely with software, extended end-to-end, optimized as one giant system. The reason why it's designed for agentic systems is very clear because agents, of course, the most important workload is its thinking. The large language model, the large language models are getting larger and larger and larger. It's going to generate more and more tokens more quickly, so it can think more quickly. But it also has to access memory. It's going to pound on memory really hard. KV cache, structured data, QDf, unstructured data, QVs. It's going to be pounding on the mem on the storage system really really hard, which is the reason why we reinvented the storage system. It is also going to use tools, and unlike humans, they are more tolerant to slower computers. AI wants the tools to be as fast as possible. These tools, web browsers, in the future they could also be virtual PCs in the cloud. Those PCs have to be and those computers have to be as fast as possible. We created a brand new CPU, a brand new CPU that's designed for extremely high single-threaded performance, incredibly high data output, incredibly good at data processing, and extreme
This is insanely hard to do well. It is insanely hard to do. Period. And I'm just super proud of the team. NVLink, completely liquid cooled. This is the brand new Rock system, and I'll show you a little more about it. This system, eight Rock chips. This is the LP30. The world's ever seen it. Anything that the world's ever seen is V1. This is third generation, and we're in volume production now. And I'll show you more about that in just a second. The world's first CPO spectrum switch. This is also in full production. Co-packaged optics. Optics comes directly onto this chip. Interfaces directly to silicon. Electrons get translated to photons, and it gets directly directly connected to this chip. We invented the process technology with TSMC, where the only one in production with today. It's called Co. It's completely revolutionary. NVIDIA is in full production with SpectrumX. This is the Vero system. Twice the performance per watt of any any CPUs in the world today. It is also in production. Well, you know we never we never thought we would be selling CPUs standalone. We are selling a lot of CPUs standalone. This is already for sure going to be a multi-billion-dollar business for us. So I'm very very pleased with our CPU architects. We designed a revolutionary CPU, and this is the SX9 powered with Vero CPU, the Bluefield 4 STX, our new storage platform. Okay, so these are the four. These are the the racks, and it's connected. Each one of these racks, the NVLink rack. This is. I showed you guys this before. It's just super heavy and seems to get heavier every year. Because I think there's just more cables in there every year, and so so this is the NVLink rack. We've also taken this technology because it it is so efficient to create a data center with these cabling systems, structured cables. So we decided to do that for Ethernet. So this is Ethernet 256 liquid cooled nodes in one rack, and it is also connected with these incredible connectors. You guys want to see um, Ruben Ultra? So this is the Ruben Ultra compute node. Unlike Ruben, that slides in horizontally, Ruben Ultra goes into a whole new rack. It's called Kyber that enables us to connect 144 GPUs in one NVLink domain, and so
This is what happens when you. This is what happens when you don't practice. Okay, all right. So, you saw you. Take your time. Just don't get hurt. You saw you saw this slide. You know, only Nvidia keynote. Will you see last year's slide presented again? And the reason for that is, I just want you to know that last year I told you something very, very important, and as important as worthwhile to tell you again. This is probably the single most important chart for the future of AI factories, and every CEO, every CEO in the world will be tracking it, will be studying it very deeply. It's much, much more complicated than this. It's multi-dimensional, but you will be studying the throughput and the token speed of your AI factories. The throughput token speed at ISO power because that's all the power you have. Throughput and token speed for your factories forever, and that that analysis is going to lead directly to your revenues. What you do this year will show up precisely next year as your revenues, and this chart is what it's all about. And I said on the vertical axes, on the vertical axes, thank you guys. On the vertical axes is throughput. On the horizontal axes is token rate. Today, I'm going to show you this. Because we're able, because we're now able to increase the token speed, and because model sizes are increasing, because the token length, the context length, depending on the different grades of different application use cases, continues to grow from maybe a hundred thousand tokens input length to maybe millions. The token input length is growing, and also the output token length is growing, and so all of these play into ultimately the marketing and the pricing of future tokens. Tokens are the new commodity, and like all commodities, once it reaches an inflation, once it becomes mature or becomes maturing, it will segment into different parts. The high throughput, low speed could be used for the free tier. The next tier could be the medium tier, larger model, maybe higher speed for sure, larger input context length. That translates to a different price point. You could see from all different services. This one is free. It's a free tier. The first tier could be three dollars per million tokens. The next tier could be six dollars per million tokens. You would like to be able to keep pushing the boundary because the larger the model, smarter, the more input token context length, more relevant.
We introduce a whole new tier. This this is the benefit of Grace Blackwell, a huge jump over Hopel. Well, this is what we're doing with. Okay, so this is Grace Blackwell. Okay, let me just reset. Reset this, and this is Vera Rubin. Okay. Now just think, just think what just happened. At every single tier, at every single tier, at every single tier, we increase the throughput. And at the tier that where your highest ASPI and your most valuable segment, we increase it by 10x. That is the hard work. This is incredibly hard to do out here. This is the benefit of NVLink 72. This is the benefit of extremely low latency. This is the benefit of extreme coding that we can shift the entire area up. Now, what does it mean from a customer perspective in the end? Suppose I were to take all of that and I just you know multiply again. Suppose I took 25 percent of my power used in the free tier, 25 percent of my power in the medium tier, 25 percent of my power in the high tier, 25 percent of my power in the premium tier. My data center only has a gigawatt, and so I get to decide how I want to distribute the free tier. Allows me to attract more customers. This allows me to serve my most valuable customers, and the combination, the product of all that, allows you basically your revenues. The revenues you can generate, assuming this simplistic example, allows Blackwell to generate five times more revenues. Vera Rubin to generate five times. Yeah. So Vera Rubin, you should get there as soon as you can. And the reason for that is because your your cost of tokens goes down and your throughput goes up. Now, but we want even more. We want even more, and so let me just go back to this. This is as I as I as I told you, this throughput requires a ton of flops. This latency, this interactivity requires enormous amount of bandwidth. Computers don't like extremely amount of flops, extremely amount of bandwidth because there's only so much surface area for chips that any system has. And so, optimizing for high throughput and optimizing for low latency are in fact enemies of each other. And so, this is what happened when we combined with Rock. Okay, and so we we acquired the team that worked on the Rock chips and licensed the technology, and
A computing system, a deterministic data flow processor. It is statically compiled. It is compiler scheduled, meaning the compiler figures out when the when to do the compute. The the compute and data arrive at the same time. All of that is done statically in advance, and scheduled completely in software. There's no dynamic scheduling. The architecture is designed with massive amounts of SRAM. It is designed just for inference. This one workload. Now, this one workload, as it turns out, is the workload of AI factories. And as the world continues to increase the amount of high speed tokens it wants to generate, with super smart tokens it wants to generate, the value of the generation is going to get even higher. And so these are two extreme processors you can see, one chip, 500 megabytes, one Vera Rubin chip, one Rubin chip, 288 gigabytes. It would take a lot of ROC chips to be able to hold the parameter size of Rubin as well as all of the context that has to go, the KV cache that has to go along with it. So that limited ROC ability to really reach the mainstream to really take off, until we had a great idea. What if we disaggregated inference altogether with a piece of software called Dynamo? What if we rearchitected the way that inference is done in the pipeline, so that we could put the work that makes perfect sense on Vera Rubin and then offload the decode generation, the low latency, the bandwidth limited challenge part of the workload for ROC. And so we united, unified two processors of extreme differences, one for high throughput, one for low latency. It still doesn't change the fact that we need a lot of memory. And so ROC we're just going to add a whole bunch of ROC chips, which expand the amount of memory it has. And so if you could just imagine, out of a trillion parameter model, we have to store all of that in ROC chips. However, it's next to NVIDIA Vera Rubin where we could we could hold the massive amounts of KV cache that's necessary in processing all of these AI systems. It's based upon this idea of disaggregated inference. We do the prefill, that's the easy part. But we also tightly integrate the decode. So the attention part of decode is done on NVIDIA Vera Rubin, which needs a lot of math, and the feed forward network part of it, the decode part, is done, the token generation part is done on Vera Rubin
Gp300 racks. We are in full production. The Vera CPUs incredibly successful, and the reason for that is because AI needs CPUs for tool use, and Vera CPU was designed just perfectly for that sweet spot. Incredible for the next generation of data processing. Vera CPU is ideal. The Vera CPU plus Bluefield plus CX9 connected into the Bluefield four stacks. A hundred percent. A hundred percent of the world's storage industry is joining us on this system, and the reason for that is because they see exactly the same thing. The storage system is going to get pounded. It's going to get pounded because we used to have humans using the storage systems. We used to have humans using SQL. Now we're going to have AI using these storage systems, and it's going to store QDF accelerated storage, QVS accelerated storage, as well as very importantly KV caching. Okay, so this is the Vera Ruben system. Now what's amazing is this: in just two years' time, in a one gigawatt factory, in just two years' time in one gigawatt factory, using using the mathematics that I showed you earlier, whereas Moore's law would have given us a couple of steps, we would have, you know, X factored the number of transistors, we would X factored the number of flops, we would X factored the number of amount of bandwidth. But with this architecture, we're going to take our token generation speed, token generation rate, from 22 million to 700 million, 350 times increase. This is this is the power of extreme design. This is what I mean when we integrate and optimize vertically, but then we open it horizontally for everybody to enjoy. This is our roadmap. Very quickly, Blackwell is here. The Oberon system. In the case of Ruben, we have the Oberon system, which is always backwards compatible, so that if you wanted to not change anything and just keep on moving through with the new architecture, you could do so. The old system, the the standard rack system, Oberon still available. Oberon is copper scale up, and with Oberon, we could also use optical scale out. Excuse me, optical scale up to expand to NVLink 576. Okay, and so there's a lot of conversation about is NVIDIA going to copper scale up or optical scale up? We're going to do both. So we're going
Are you going to scale out optical? Yes. And so, for everybody who is in our ecosystem, we need a lot more capacity. And that's really the key. We need a lot more capacity for copper. We need a lot more capacity for optics. We need a lot more capacity for CPO. And that's the reason why we've been working with all of you to lay the foundation for this level of growth. And so, five men will have all of that. Let me see if I missed everything. That's it. Every single year, brand new architecture. Very quick. Very quickly, Nvidia went from a chip company to an AI factory company or AI infrastructure company, AI computing company, systems. And now we're building entire AI factories. There's so much power that is squandered in these AI factories. We want to make sure that these AI factories come together, designed in the best possible way. Most of these components never meet each other. Most of most of us technology vendors now we all know each other, but in the past we never met each other until the data center. That can't happen. We're building super complex systems, and so we have to meet each other virtually somewhere else. And so we created Omniverse and the Omniverse DSX World platform, where all of us can meet and design these gigafactories, giga, you know, gigawatt AI factories virtually in system. We have simulation systems for the rack, for mechanical, thermal, electrical, networking. Those simulation systems integrated into all of our ecosystem partners, incredible tools companies. We also operated connected to the grid, so that we could interact with each other, send each other information, so that we could adjust grid power and data center power accordingly, saving energy. And then inside the data center, using MaxQ, so that we could adjust the system dynamically across power and cooling, and all of the different technologies we all work on together, so that we leave no power squandered. So that we run at the most optimal way to deliver enormous amount of token throughput. There's no question in my mind. There's a factor two in here. And a factor two at the scale we're talking about is gigantic. We call this the Nvidia DSX platform, and just as all of our platforms, there's a hardware layer, there's a library layer, and there's the ecosystem layer. Exactly the same way. Let's show it. The greatest infrastructure buildout in history
Continuously optimizes compute throughput and energy efficiency. Emerald AI agents interpret live grid demand and stress signals, and adjust power dynamically. With Dsx, NVIDIA and our ecosystem of partners are racing to build AI infrastructure around the world, ensuring extreme resiliency, efficiency, and throughput. It's incredible, right? Well, Omniverse Omniverse was designed to hold the world's digital twin, starting from the Earth, and it's going to hold digital twins of all sizes. And so, we have just such a great ecosystem of partners. I want to thank all of you. All of these companies are brand new to our world. We didn't know many of you just a couple years ago, and now we're working so close together to work on and build together the largest computer the world's ever seen, and also to do it at planetary scale. So, NVIDIA Dsx is our new AI factory platform. I'll spend very little time on this this time. However, we're going to space. We've already been out in space. Thor is radiation approved, and we're in satellites. You do imaging from from satellites, and the future will also build data centers in the in the in space. Obviously, very complicated to do so. We have we're working with our partners on a new computer called Vera Rubin Space One, and it's going to go out to space and start data centers out out in space. Now, of course, in space, there's no conduction, there's no convection, there's just radiation, and so we have to figure out how to cool these systems out in space. But we got lots of great engineers working on it. Let me tell you about something new. So, so um, Peter Steinberger is here, and um, he he wrote a piece of software. It's called Open Claw, and and I don't know if he realized how successful it's going to be. But the importance is profound. Open Claw is the number one, is the most popular open source project in the history of humanity, and it did so in just a few weeks. It exceeded it exceeded what Linux did in 30 years, and it's that important. It is that important. It will do well. This is all you do, okay? We're now seeing our support of it. Let me let me just quickly go through this. I want to show you a couple things. You simply type this. You type this into a into a console,
We run a hundred experiments overnight, keeping all works and killing it. I really love what Microsoft enables that person to do. And like one guy told me, like installing this video, the ads, and like the media, connect the machine, the Bluetooth, to OpenCL. Then we automate everything, including the whole website for people to order. Lots of people using OpenCL to steal. OpenCL, OpenCL, OpenCL, OpenCL. Everyone is talking about OpenCL. What OpenCL? We don't know. It's already a clone. Incredible! Incredible! Now I illustrate effectively what OpenCL is in this way, so that all of you can understand it. But let's just think what happened. What is OpenCL? It connects. It's an it's it's a gen tech system. It calls and connects to large language models. So the first thing it has, it has resources that it manages. It man it can access tools, it can access systems, it can access large language models. It it's able to do scheduling. It's able to do cron jobs. It's able to decompose a problem that a problem you gave it in step by step by step. It could spawn off and call upon other agents. It has I/O. You could talk to it in any modality you want. You can wave at it and understand you. You could talk to any modality you want. It sends you messages. It texts you. Sends you email. So it's got I/O. Um. What else does it have? Well, based on that, you could you could say, in fact, it's an operating system. I just use the same syntax that I would describe an operating system. OpenCL has open source. Essentially, the operating system of gen tech computers. It is no different than how Windows made it possible for us to create personal computers. Now, OpenCL has made it possible for us to create personal agents. The implication is incredible. The implication is incredible. First of all, the adoption says something, you know, all itself. However, the most important thing is this: every single company now realizes, every single company, every single software company, every single technology company. For the CEOs, the question is: what's your OpenCL strategy? Just as we needed all having Linux strategy, we all needed to have a HTTP HTML strategy, which started the Internet. We all needed to have a Kubernetes strategy, which made it possible for
Just as Linux gave the industry exactly what it needed exactly the time, just as Kubernetes showed up at exactly the right time, just as HMM showed up, it made it possible for the entire industry to grab onto this open source stack and go do something with it. There's just one catch: agentic systems in the corporate network can have access to sensitive information, can execute code, and can communicate externally. Just say that out loud. Okay, think about it: access sensitive information, execute code, communicate externally. You could, of course, access employee information, access supply chain, access finance information, sensitive information, and send it out, communicate externally. Obviously, this can't possibly be allowed. And so what we did was we worked with Peter. We took some of the world's best security and computing experts, and we worked with Peter to make OpenCL, OpenCL enterprise secure and enterprise private capable. And we call that this is our NVIDIA OpenCL reference for Open NemoCL, which is a reference for OpenCL and has all these agentic AI toolkits. And the first part of it is technology we call OpenShell that has now been integrated into OpenCL. Now it's enterprise ready. This stack, this stack with a reference design we call NemoCL, NemoCL. Okay, with a reference stack we call NemoCL. You could download it, play with it, and you could connect to it the policy engine of all of the SAS companies in the world. And your policy engines are super important, super valuable. So the policy engines can be connected NemoCL or OpenCL with OpenShell, would be able to execute that policy engine. It has a policy. It has a network guardrail. It has a privacy router, and as a result, we could protect and keep the the clause from executing inside our company and do it safely. We also added several things to the agentic system, and one of the most important things you want to do with your own clause is so that you can have your custom models. And this is NVIDIA's Open Model Initiative. We are now at the frontier of every single domain of AI models, whether it's NemoCL, Cosmo's world foundation model, Groot artificial general robotics humanoid robotics models, AlphaMIO for autonomous vehicle, BioNemo for digital biology, Earth Two for AI physics. We are at the frontier on every single one. Take a look. The world is diverse. No single model can
Most importantly, it's because we are not going to give up working on it. We're going to keep on working on it every single day. Neutron three is going to be followed by Neutron four. Cosmos one was followed by Cosmos two. Group, group at generation two. Each one of these going to continue to advance these models. Vertical integration, horizontal openness, so that we can enable everybody to join the AI revolution. Number one, on leaderboard across research and voice and world models and artificial general robotics and self-driving cars and reasoning. Of course, one of the most important one. This is Neutron three in Open Claw. This is Neutron three in Open Claw. And look at the top three. They are the three best models in the world. Okay, so we are at the frontier. It is also true. It is also true that we want to create the foundation models so that all of you can fine tune it, post train it into exactly the intelligence you need. This is Neutron three ultra. It is going to be the best base model the world ever created. This allows us to help every country build their sovereign AI, and we're working with so many different companies out there. And one of the most exciting things that we're doing today, announcing today, is a Neutron coalition. We are so dedicated to this. We have invested billions of dollars of AI infrastructure so that we could develop the core engines for AI that's necessary for all the libraries and inference and so on. But also to create the AI models to activate every single industry in the world. Large language models is really important. Of course, is important. How can how can human intelligence not be? However, in different industries around the world, in different countries around the world, you need to have the ability to customize your own models and the domains. The domain of the the domain of the models is radically different from biology, physics, the self-driving cars, the general robotics, to of course human language. And we have the ability to work with every single region to create their domain-specific their sovereign AI. Today, we're announcing a coalition to partner with us to make Neutron four even more amazing. And that coalition has some amazing companies in it: Black Forest Labs, Engine Company, Cursor, the famous coding company. We use lots of it. LangChain, billion downloads for creating custom agents. Mistral, the Arthur Arthur mentioned thing. He's here. Incredible, incredible company. Perplex
We partner to build. Okay, so every single enterprise company today sit on top of file systems and data centers. Every single software company of the future will be agentic, and they will be token manufacturers. They'll be token users for their engineers, and they'll be token manufacturers for all of their customers. The open cloud event, the open cloud event, cannot be understated. This is as big of a deal as HTML. This is as big of a deal as Linux. We have now a world-class open agentic framework that all of us could use to build our open cloud strategy. And we've created a reference design we call Nemo Cloud. Nemo Cloud that all of you could use that is optimized, its performance, it is safe and secure. Speaking of agents, agents as you know perceive, reason, and act. Most of the agents in the world today that I've spoken about are digital agents. They act in the digital world. They reason. They write software. It's all digital. But we also have been working on physically embodied agents for a long time. We call them robots, and the AI's that they need are physical AI's. We have some big announcements here. I'm going to just walk through a few of them. A hundred and ten robots here. Almost every single company in the world. I can't think of one that are building robots is working with Nvidia. We have three computers: the training computer, the synthetic data generation and simulation computer, and of course the robotics computer that sits inside the robot itself. We have all the software stacks necessary to do so. The AI models to help you, and all of this is integrated into ecosystems around the world, and all of our partners from Siemens to Cadence, incredible partners everywhere. And today we're announcing a whole bunch of new, new partners. As you know, we've been working on self-driving cars for a long time. The ChatGPT moment of self-driving cars has arrived. We now know we could successfully autonomously drive cars. And today we are announcing four new partners for Nvidia's robot taxi ready platform: BMW, Hyundai, Nissan, Geely. All together, eighteen million cars built each year, joining our partners from before Mercedes, Toyota, GM. The number of robot taxi ready cars in the future are going to be incredible, and we're announcing also a big partnership with Uber. Multiple cities we're going to be deploying and connecting these robot taxi ready vehicles into their network.
This is the age of physical AI and robotics. Around the world, developers are building robots of every kind. But the real world is massively diverse, unpredictable, full of edge cases. Real-world data will never be enough to train for every scenario. We need data generated from AI and simulations, or robots compute this data. Developers pre-train world foundation models on internet-scale video and human demonstrations, and evaluate the models' performance to prepare them for post-training. Using classical and neural simulation, they generate massive amounts of synthetic data and train policies at scale to accelerate developers. NVIDIA built open-source Isaac Lab for robot training and evaluation simulations, Newton for extensible and GPU-accelerated differentiable physics simulations, Cosmos world models for neural simulation, and Group Open Robotics foundation models for robot reasoning and action generation. With enough compute, developers everywhere are closing the physical AI data gap. Parrotas AI trains their operating room assistant robot in NVIDIA Isaac Lab, multiplying their data with NVIDIA Cosmos world models. Skilled AI uses Isaac Lab and Cosmos to generate post-training data for their skilled AI brain. They use reinforcement learning to harden the model across thousands of variations. Humanoid uses Isaac Lab to train whole body control and manipulation policies. Hexagon Robotics uses Isaac Lab for training and data generation. Foxcon fine-tunes Group models in Isaac Lab, as does Noble Machines. Disney Research uses their Comino physics simulator in Newton and Isaac Lab to train policies across their character robots in every universe. Does, ladies and gentlemen, Olaf? Does it? New, new, new works. Wow! Omniverse works. Olaf, how are you? So happy you, I know. Because I gave you your computer, Jensen. Well, it's in your tummy. That's me. And you learn how to walk inside Omniverse. I love walking. It's so much better, right? It's amazing. And it was because of physics using this Newton solver that runs on top of NVIDIA Warp that we jointly developed with Disney and with DeepMind that made it possible for you to be able to adapt to the physical world. Check that out. That's how smart you are. A snowman. Not a snowman. Could you imagine this? The future of Disneyland. All these, all these robots, all these characters wandering around. Oh, you know, I have to admit though, I thought you were going to be taller. I've never seen such a short snowman. To be honest. Oh.
Okay. Usually, usually, I close the keynote by telling you what I told you. We talked about inference and flexion. We talked about the AI factory. We talked about the open claw agent revolution that's happening, and of course, we talked about physical AI and robotics. But tell you what, why don't we get some friends to help us close it out? All right, play it. Terminating simulation. Hello? Anybody here? The keynote's over. All the agents and metal heads, AI factories coming alive, agents learning how to drive from open models to robots. Now we're breaking all down. Computers flooded. We saw from seeing into open claw agents working cross the land, but they need the power, need the man, so we saw the problem was brewing. We multiply from about forty million. Once upon an AI time, friends prepared. Shorter talk, models out, but friends run the world now. There's who's the boss? The five times less the cost. Blackwell makes the tokens, sending video. The AI friends came. The AI factories want to gears and gears pulling racks and gears, build up slowly piece by piece, no clear way to scale this. B S X and dynamo know what to do. Turning in power into revenue. Agents used to waiting, see now we got timers. But if they ever try to create safe claws, black and say no way, need more claws that'll go cold. And yes, my friends, it's open source. Cars that think and doors that run, they're moving. It's all begun. Now come my calls, shots at the GPT moment for the bots from Sim to Street. Now walks and drives. No, your hands for physical AI. Used to build a keyboard, now we build for AI. Even more, there will be plus, crack, make the inference, flash, put them together. Now it's raining cash. We build new architecture every year, cause claws keep yelling more tokens here. The AI stacks for all to make so let us all evolve. Let's take the moment, right, the path is clear, cause open models let us see it when they don't miss and there's no dispute. We just generate more with compute. Robots learning without flaws, fueling the force, scaling laws. The future's here, won't you come and see? Welcome all to GTC. All right, have a great GTC. Wait. Thank you, everybody.
