Well, this is the first time that we're sitting down with you since you stepped down from the position of CEO of Berkshire Hathaway. Yeah, a long, long run, very successful run. How is your life different today? Well, it's not much different, except for the. I mean, I go in every day. Yeah, yeah, I go in every day. It almost I, I don't accomplish hardly anything. I mean, in terms, I it it it just takes me way longer to do things and and uh, and Greg is so good. I was kind of very sick. Yeah, because he he is covered. You know, we've got about two hundred businesses within Berkshire. You know, the Camelot, and I can name the manager's names or the wives' names. I haven't seen them in a long time. It was easier just to write the letter once a year and and and got to do all the things. And Greg covers more ground in a day than I would in a week even when I was in my peak level of president days. So it's it's it's a move. The in many ways, I could have done it earlier, and Greg would have been better than I was. But you know, and I can still contribute just a tiny bit. Well, what are you still involved in making investments at all? Yeah, yeah, it and but I won't make any of Greg's things at all. And and he'll run. He's starting to get a few calls, and he'll call me about it and what he does, like him, you know. But but calls for deals. Yeah, well, yeah, it's it's about bankers calling, and and I'll see him, you know, and try and solve it, but but I cut him off about fifteen seconds, and he's he's he's he spends more time with him, but I don't waste his time because he he talks with us. I mean, it is like he's manic as I was, you know, in terms of running the place, but with no more apparent effort, he just covers so many bases. In terms of what you're doing with investing, I mean, it's a huge amount of money. How much cash does Berkshire have on hand at this point? I don't know exactly, but it's not much different than before. So you know, it's probably north of one three hundred fifty billion cashes
We aren't finding things that we weren't finding before. Well, let's talk about that. The market has come down substantially. You've not substantially. Well, you've got both the Dow and the Nasdaq in correction territory. It's the worst performance on a quarterly basis for stocks in about four years. Do things look cheaper to you? No. Three times since I took taking over Berkshire, it's gone down more than fifty percent. I mean, if you look at the markets of, oh, the worst probably was the two thousand seven eight period, although there was that one Monday when you had twenty one percent in a day. I mean, this is nothing. I mean, it. Well, this is nothing to make you get excited and think there's huge valuations. If they're five or six percent cheaper, that doesn't. We aren't in a to make five or six percent. I mean, but we're a big seller here. In in the end, we own businesses. Sometimes they're wholly owned, sometimes they're partly owned. That's what I like to own. And two thirds of our money or more is in our businesses. And we bought Occidental Chemical on January third. That was nine point seven billion. And as far as I'm concerned, that's got some advantages, some disadvantages for owning a stock, but it's got the same principles attached to it. It is a business, and the business we expect to own indefinitely. I mean, are you? I mean, it doesn't sound like you're necessarily finding businesses that you want to own flat out either. Not just purchasing portions of them. If you've got three hundred fifty billion dollars plus sitting around, yeah, and we get calls all the time, and there's only calls, but like I said, it takes me five seconds to say no. It takes rings a little more polite than I am, but I, I mean, it, it, I, I just as soon get the calls, just to see what people are doing, but they aren't offering anything that's an attractive price, and what they want is a trade.
