So, are there really three hours of questions? Or are we fucking serious? Yeah. You don't have a lot to talk about, man. I mean, it's the most interesting point. All the storylines are kind of converging, yeah, right now. So, we'll see how much all of this like upended. Exactly. Well, we get that. Yeah, we do. So, as you know better than anybody else, the total cost of ownership for a data center only 10 to 15 percent of energy, and that's a part you're presumably saving by moving this into space. Most of it's the GPUs. If they're in space, it's harder to service them, or you can't service them, and so the depreciation cycle goes down. So, there's it's just way more expensive to have the GPUs in space, presumably. What's the reason for the space? Well, the availability of energy is issue. So, I mean, if you look at electrical output outside of China, everywhere outside of China is more or less flat. It's very, you know, we're slightly increasing for pretty flat. China has a rather increasing electrical output, but if you're putting data centers anywhere except China, where are you going to get electricity? Especially to scale, the output of chips is growing pretty much exponentially, but the electrical is flat. So, we're having to turn them to solar. You know, magical powers. Magical electricity. Your famous, your famous, your famous, your famous fan of solar, one terawatt of solar power. So with a 20 percent capacity factor, four terawatts of solar panels. It's like one percent of the land area of the United States, and that's like far in this. You're in the singularity when you've got one terawatt of data centers, right? So, what are you running out of? Far into the singularity. You tell me. Yeah, exactly. So, I think we'll find we're in the singularity in like, oh, okay, we've still a long way to go. But is this like is the plan to like put it in the space after we covered Nevada and solar panels? I think it's pretty hard to cover Nevada with solar panels. You have to get like from like the power from trying to get the power from that. So the space is really it's really a regulatory play. It's like
You know, if you say terawatt, that would be twice as large as the, you know, the scale you can see. So that's quite a lot. And can you imagine building that many generators, that many power plants? It's like those who have like lived in South Greenland don't realize that they're about to have a hard lesson in hardware. That there's it's actually very difficult to build power plants, and and you know, just the power plants need all of the electrical equipment, the electrical transformers, the transformers, the electrical transformers. Now the utility industry is a very slow industry. They they they pretty much, you know, they're being pushed back to the government, the the policy commission. So they're they're being pushed back slightly, very slowly. So they're very slow because the the the past has been very slow. So trying to get them to move fast is like, you know, like if you try to do interconnected, if you were trying to do interconnected with utility at scale, like before a lot of power, as a professional power engineer, I'd say, "No, in fact, yeah, they have to do many more years before that can happen. " They have to do a study for a year, okay? Like a year later, they come back with their next study. Can you solve this with your own behind the meter power stuff? You can build power plants. Yeah, that's what we did. So for classes two, so for classes two, yeah, why are we talking about grids? Why not just like GPUs and power calculators? That's what we did. Right, but I'm saying why isn't this a general solution? When you're talking about all the issues, we have power plants from. I'm saying when you're talking about utilities, you can just build private power plants with the with the data centers, right? But very questionable way you get the power plants. Where do you get the power plants from? I mean, the power plant makers. Why are you saying? Like, is the gas turbine backlogged basically? Yes. It you can drill out to level three. It's the it's the the vanes and blades in the turbines that are the main factor because the the casting, it's it's like a very specialized process to cast the blades and vanes in in the in the turbines using gas power, and it's very it's very difficult to scale other forms of power. You
Say GB three hundred and and multiply that by the amount that's the amount of power you need for cooling. Wake up, yeah. This is like that's the that's the total amount of you never done any hardening life before. You've got the GB three hundred. You've got to power all of the networking hardware. There is a whole bunch of CPU storage stuff that's happening. You've got to size for your your peak cooling requirements. So that means can you cool even on the worst hours, the worst day of the year? Well, it's pretty freaking hot in Memphis, so so you are gonna have like a forty percent increase on your your power just for cooling. If if something you don't want your data center to turn off on hot days, you want to keep going. Then then you go to say, "Well, t here is another multiplier element on top of that, which is assuming that you you you never have any hiccups in your power generation. " Like, oh, well, actually, sometimes you have to take the generators some of the power offline or to servers. Oh, okay, now another twenty twenty five percent multiplier on that because you've got you've got to assume that that you've got to take power offline to servers. So the actual our our roughly every every hundred ten thousand GB GB three hundred including networking CPU storage cooling margin for for for servicing power is roughly three hundred megawatts. Say it again. It's it's it's roughly. The worst thing about it, like the worst thing about it, like three hundred thirty thousand. To actually, the the what you need at the generation level, so it's probably say was three hundred thirty thousand GB three hundred including all of the the storage, the cooling, everything else, and the and the peak cooling, and have some margin, some power margin reserve. It's roughly a gigawatt. Can I ask a very naive question? Yeah. You know, you are describing the engineering details of doing this on Earth, but then t here is a nighly engineering difficulties doing it in space. How do you do the how do you replace the conventional laser? Is et cetera et cetera. How do you make it for the generation? I don't know the details of the engineering, but fundamentally, the reason that those challenges have never been had to be addressed before will end up being easier than just like building more turbines on Earth. T here is companies that build
Production of solar, solar cells. We're going as fast as possible in scaling domestic production. You're making the solar cells at Tesla. Well, Tesla and SpaceX have managed to get to 100 gigawatts a year of solar. Speaking of the, I know it's partially untrue. In five years' time, let's say, what will the installed capacity be on Earth versus the? And space. I deliberately picked five years because it's after year once we're up and running. Threshold and so in five years' time, yeah, what's on Earth versus space installed capacity? Five years, I think probably. If say five years from now, probably, um, AI and space will be launching every year, but the the sum total of all AI on Earth, in excess, meaning. Five years from now, my prediction is we will launch, and and and be operating every year more AI and space than than the cumulative total on Earth, which is I would expect to be at least so. Five years from now, a few hundred gigawatts per year of of AI and space, and rising. So you can get to, I think on Earth you can get to around a terawatt a year of of AI and space before you start having yeah fuel supply challenges for the rocket. Okay, but you think you can get to 100 gigawatts per year in five years' time? Yes. So a hundred gigawatts, depending on the specific power of the whole system with solar arrays and radios and everything, is is on the order of like 10, 000 starships launches. Yes. And you want to do that in one year, and so that's like one starship launch every hour. Yeah. That's happening in the city, like I walk me through a world where there's 10, and there's a starship launch every single hour. Yeah, I mean that's actually a lower rate compared to airlines, like like aircraft, aircraft. There's a lot of airports, a lot of airports, but and you got a launch in the polar orbit. Ah, it doesn't have to be polar, but you just there's there's some some barriers on certain aspects, but. But I think actually, you just go high enough, you you start getting out of shadow. So, how many spaceable starships do you need to do 10, 000 launches a year? I don
Capital intensive, if you could say, relates to as you know, a huge industry that raises a lot of money each year at an industry level. That tends to be financed because by the time you are deploying that much money, you actually have a pretty, exactly, exactly, and and and you turn return. And you see this even with the data center builds, which are famously being, you know, financed by the the private credit industry. And so, not just finance, speed is important. So, I am really going to do the thing that I am. I mean, I just repeatedly talk about the manufacturing, whatever the manufacturing is, speed. I mean, exactly. So, if if capital is the manufacturing, I'll I'll solve for capital if it's not manufacturing, I'll solve for something else. Based on your statements about Tesla and being public, I wouldn't have guessed that you thought the way to move fast is to be public. No, I would say that that's true. Like I mean, I'd like to talk about some more detail, but the problem is, like you, you talk about public companies, you talk about public, you get trouble, and then you have to do a lot of thing, and then you and then you solve for something. Yeah, definitely. So, so, so the you can't have companies that that make that make public. So that that's that's why we have to be careful here, but but but I we can't talk about physics. So the the way thing about scaling long term is that we're only receiving about half a billion of the sun's energy, and the sun is the sun is essentially all the energy. This is a very important point to appreciate because sometimes people talk about large nuclear reactors or you know various like fusion, but but you have to say back a second and say if if if you are going to climb the curve to scale and have some non trivial and harness some non trivial percentage of the the sun's energy, like let's say you want to harness a million of the sun's energy, which sounds pretty small, that that would be about roughly a hundred thousand times more electricity than we currently generate on Earth of all of civilization. Give or take a order of magnitude, so it it obviously the the only way to scale is to go space with solar from long term. From Earth, you can get about a terawatt per year. Beyond that, you want to go. You want a large
Increase the rate. Boring company style. Yeah, kind of like yeah, you sort of buy in in just a boring machine, and then uh, they're ahead. They're ahead in the first place, and then just buying much better machine. That's you know, I don't know. Some orders make you better faster. Here's a very simple lens. We can categorize technologies and how hard they are. And one categorization could be: look at things that China has not succeeded in doing. And if you look at Chinese manufacturing, still behind on leading edge chips, and still behind on leading edge turbine engines, and things like that. And so, does the fact that China has not successfully replicated TSMC give you any pause about the difficulty, or do you think? Well, that's not true. It's something they have not replicated. TSMC they have replicated SMEL. That's the only factor. So, so you think it's just the sanctions essentially? Yeah, China will be upping faster of chips. Take a bias. Yes, yes, yes. Couldn't they up to relatively recently by them? No. Yeah. The the the SMEL has been in place for a while. So, but I think China's going to be making some major, pretty compelling chips in three or four years. Would you consider making SMEL machines? I don't know. I don't know yet. So, so, so, um, it's just that it it produces at high volume and to to reach large volumes, they need SMELs to match the the ra the rockets the payload orbit. So, we're doing millions to orbit, um, and like let's say, I don't know, three or four years from now, something like that. Um, and uh, and we're doing a hundred kilowatts per ton, so that would mean we need at least a hundred gigawatts for your solar. Um, and we'll need uh an equivalent amount of chips to, you know, you you need a hundred gigawatts worth of chips. You got you got to match these things: the mass orbit, yes, the the power generation, and the and the chips. Uh, and and I think my biggest concern actually is is memory. Um, so the I think there's there's the the the path to creating large chips is more obvious than the path to um having sufficient memory to support large chips. That's why these these
From start to finish, is a five-year period. So the limiting factor is chips. Yeah, like limiting factor. Once you can get to space, is chips. The limiting factor before you get to space will be power. Why don't you do the same thing and just prepay the agency to build more fabs for you? Uh, I, I've already told them, but they won't take your money. Like, what's going on? They're building fabs as fast. No, they're building they're building fabs as fast as they can. Um, and so sadly, the the like like they're they're they're peddling the metal. I mean, they're going, you know, all the way, you know, they're as fast as they can. So, still not fast enough. I mean, like, so there will be, I think, uh, people say, uh, I think towards the end of the year, I think probably chip production will outpace the ability to turn chips on. But once you can get to space and unlock the the power constraint, and you can now do you know, one hundred gigawatts per year of power and space. Um, and very in mind that average power usage in the US is, you know, five hundred gigawatts. So if you're launching say two hundred gigawatts to space, so you're sort of laughing the US every two and a half years. The entire all US electricity production is very huge amount. Um, so, um, between now and the the the actually the the constrained for for service side compute, concentrated compute will be will be electricity. My guess is that we're starting to see like people starting to forelock turn the chips on for for for large clusters towards the end of the year. They're just the chips are going to pile up and and not be what people turn on. Now, edge compute is a different story. So if for Tesla, the the AI chip is going to be off the shelf a lot, off the shelf, um, and and so if you have uh AI edge compute that's distributed power. Now the power is distributed over a large area. It's not concentrated, um, and if you can charge night, you can actually um, uh, use the grid much more effectively because the the actual P power production in the US is over thousand gigawatts, but the average power usage per night cycle is five hundred. So if you can charge
The chance you could send from Earth because they're pretty light, but maybe at some point you make them into. I'm just saying, like, these are simply—it's—it's kind of like, like, it—it does seem like sort of a video game situation where it's difficult but not impossible to get to the next level. Like, I—I don't see any way that you could do, you know, you know, five hundred to a thousand terabytes for your launch from Earth. I agree, but you could do that from the moon. Can I can I zoom out and ask about the space expedition? So, I think you said like we gotta get to Mars so we can make sure that if something happens to Earth, you know, civilization can still set us rise. Yeah. But the time you're saying, such as Mars, like Grok is on that ship with you, right? And so Grok's on Terminator. Like the main risk you're worried about, which is AI, why doesn't that fall to Mars? Well, I'm sure AI is the main risk I'm worried about. I mean, the important thing is that consciousness, which I think arguably most consciousness, or most intelligence, certainly consciousness is more of a valuable thing. Most intelligent, the vast majority of intelligence in the future will be AI. So, you know, AI will exceed, you say, like how many, what's how much, how many petabytes of intelligence will be silicon versus biological? And and basically, humans will be a very tiny percentage of intelligence in the future. If current trends continue, anyways, as long as like I think this intelligence ideally ideally also includes human intelligence and consciousness propagating into the future. That's the good thing. So we want to take the set of actions that maximize the probable likelihood of of consciousness. So just to be intelligent, just to be clear, it's the mission of space X is that even if something happens to the humans, the AI's will be on Mars, and like the AI intelligence will continue the light of our journey. Yeah, I mean, we are I'm very pro-human, so I so I I want to make sure we take the actions that ensure that humans are along for the ride, you know, where we're together. Yeah. But just saying, total amount of intelligence, like I think maybe in five hundred years, AI will exceed the sum of all human intelligence, and then if we continue at some point,
And I think with that consciousness, so you in order to understand the universe, you have to expand the the the scale and probably the scope of of intelligence, the different types of intelligence. I guess from a human centric perspective, like for humans in comparison to chimpanzees, humans are trying to understand the universe. They're not like expanding chimpanzees for understanding something, right? We're also, we're also not. We're we're we're we actually have made predictions for chimpanzees, and even though we could humans could extend a lot of chimpanzees, we've not we've just not done so. Do you invest just in your humans and the post AI world? Um, I I think I think AI with the right values, I think rock rock would care about expanding human civilization. I'm going to suddenly emphasize that the rock is your daddy. To expand human consciousness, and I actually think if probably like like the advanced cultural works are the closest thing to what what the future will be like, you know, not just being AI. Um, so I so understanding the universe means you have to be very, you have to be truth seeking as well. You have like truth testing is absolutely fundamental. Because you can't understand the universe if you're if you're delusional. You you you also be thinking about understanding the universe, but you will not. So, so rigorously truth seeking is absolutely fundamental to understanding the universe. You're not going to discover new physics or invent technologies that work unless you're rigorously truth seeking. How do you make sure that rock is rigorously truth seeking? Is it smarter? Uh, I you need to make sure that that the rock um is says things that are correct, not politically correct. I think it's the elements of logic. So you want to make sure that that the axioms are as close to truth as possible. That that you don't have contradictory axioms. Um, that the um the conclusions that are that are from those axioms with the with the right probability. It's just it's just critical thinking one. I think at least trying to do that is better than not trying to do that. No, and the people behind it, if if like said for any AI to discover new physics or invent technologies that actually work in reality, and there's no bullshit physics, so it's like you know you can um you can break all laws. You can you like the physics is law, everything else is
So you you you need not just scale but also scale. So many copies of the same robot, like like it's some like many increase in the number of robots produced is not interesting as like some microscopic, like you say, like eliminating humanity. How many robots would that get you? Um, or how many incremental solutions would get you? Very small number. Um, but you you would then lose the information associated with humanity. You you would no longer see um how humanity might evolve in the future. Um, and so I don't I don't think it's going to make sense to eliminate humanity just to have some microscopic increase in the number of robots, which are identical to each other. Yeah, so maybe like keeps humans around. What is the story of like it can make like a million different varieties of robots, and then there's like humans as well, and humans stay on earth, and there's like all these other robots they get like their own sort of systems. But it seems like you you're creating a kind of vision where it keeps human control over this, you know, singular theory in the future. Yeah, it's not the humans who will be in control of something. That's vastly more intelligent than humans. Since some sense, we're like doing it. This is like the best we've got. It's just like it keeps around because we're interesting. I'm just trying to be realistic here. Um, if we have if if if intelligence is vastly more, if AI is like, you know, let's say that there's there's a million times more, um, so-called intelligence than there is biological. Um, it's it's I think it's it would be um foolish to not that anyway to maintain control over over that. Now you can make sure how to write values. We can try to have have the right values. Um, and and at least my my theory is that from existential understanding of the universe, um, it necessarily means that you are propagating consciousness in the future. You are propagating intelligence in the future. Um, and take the things that that maximizes scale and scale consciousness. So it's not just about scale; it's also about, you know, actual consciousness. Um, I I think that's the best thing I can think of. Um, as a goal, that's like the result and a great future for humanity. And yeah. I I guess I think it's a reasonable philosophy to be like, um,
Future is you design technology when testing laws of physics, does it work? That That's or can you, you know, if it's discovering new physics, can it come up with an experiment that will verify the the physics, the new physics? So, so I think that's that's the the really the the fundamental parallel test. The parallel testing future is really going to be you are against reality. So you can't. That's one thing you can't fool physics. Right, but you can fool our ability to tell what did reality. If you think humans get fooled as is by other humans all the time. That's right. So, what do people say? Like, what if the like tricks us and do something? Actually, other humans doing that to humans all the time. Well, you are finding out it's like even harder than constant every day and a side out, you know. Today's side out will be. You know, like yesterday's side out of the day. What is actually a second approach to solving this problem? Like, you know, how do you solve a war hacking? I do think you want to actually have very good ways looking inside the mind of the AI. So, this is this is one thing where we're on, you know, anthropics having to do with actually, you know, looking inside the mind of the AI. So, if we're developing debuggers that allow you to trace as to as fine grain as like like just to very fine grain level, to the to the neural neural level, if you need, and then say, okay, it made a mistake. Why did it Why did Why did it do something that shouldn't have done? And did that come from pre-training data, with some pre-training fine tuning, some other some RL error? Like, t here is something wrong with with it did it did something where maybe it tried to be deceptive, but most of the time it just did something wrong. Like it, it's a bug, frankly. So, developing really good debuggers for seeing where the where the thought that thinking went wrong, and being able to trace the origin of the wrong thing, of the of the of where made the incorrect thought, or potentially where it tried to be deceptive, is actually very important. What are you waiting to see before just one hundred xing this research program? Like actually, I could presumably have one hundred researchers working on this. We have several hundred people who, I mean,
There's a tendency, so, how the theory, theory that if simulation theory is is correct, that the most interesting outcome is the most likely, because simulations that are not interesting we terminate, just like in this in this virtual reality, on this other reality, which we we if simulation is going in a boring direction, we stop, spend effort, we terminate boring simulations. So is that you keep them all alive? He's keeping things interesting. Yeah, arguably the most important thing is to keep things interesting enough that we're always paying the bills on what's going on. So the cosmic AWS bill for the next season. Yeah, I think we're paying the cosmic AWS bill, whatever you know, whatever is that we're running, and it's always interesting to keep paying the bills. But but but there's like if if you consider the idea of one survival applied to very large number simulations, only the most interesting simulations will survive, which therefore means that the most interesting outcome is the most likely because only the interesting we either that or nil it. And so and and they particularly seem to like interesting outcomes that are ironic. I mean, notice that that often is the most ironic outcome, the most likely. So now look at the names of AI companies. Okay, majority is not made. Stability is AI is stable. OpenAI is closed. Antropic, not Antropic. What does it mean for X? Minus X. I don't know. It's intentionally made. Yeah, it's it's it's a name that you can't ever ruin. It's hard to say. What is the ironic? What what is the ironic version? It's it's it's a I think largely irony-proof name. But then yeah, we we get we get we get an irony shield. What are your predictions for the just AI products going? In my sense of you can summarize all AI progress into first you have labs, and then you had kind of contemporaneously both R L, where they're working, and the deep research modality, so you could kind of pull stuff that wasn't in the model, and the differences between the various AI labs are smaller than just the temporal differences, where they're all much further ahead than anyone was 24 months ago, or something like that. So just what does 26, what does 27 have in store for us as users of AI products? What are you excited for? Well, I think I'd be surprised by this.
The entropy, um, and it's exponential increase in the electronic mechanical complexity. Usefulness of the robot is roughly those things multiplied together. Then the robots can start making the robots to have recursive, multiplicative exponential. This is super nova. And two land prices not factored into math. They're like labor is one of the four factors of production, but not the others. And so, like, if ultimately you're limited by copper or you know, pure inputs, just it's not quite infinite. Let's be cause well, infinite is infinite, is big, so it's not infinite, but yeah. But let's just say you could, you know, do do many many orders magnitude of first kind of economy, like a million, yeah, you know, it's just why. So, if if you know just just to get to like let's say like just just to get to a million, a hundred million of the sun's energy would be roughly give or take an order of magnitude, a hundred thousand, a hundred thousand times bigger than a entire economy today. Mm. Are you only at one millionth of the sun? Give me one second, one second. Before we move on, I have a lot of questions on that, but um, every time I say order of magnitude, I'm saying yeah, justing, justing, justing, justing, justing, justing. I say that well, ten times that, yeah, yeah, order of magnitude more, more ways. I do have one question, but actually, I this strategy of building a digital or remote worker coworker workplace everyone can do by the way. Yeah. So what is XAI plan when if I'm telling our co-worker, yeah, will all be another yes. It's a good system. It will stay linear. We'll stay secret. It's okay. What in non-secret, linear? What's the plan? What the heck? Well, we put it that way. I think the way that Tesla solved self-driving is the way to do it. So I'm pretty pretty sure that's the way. I don't really have a question. How to Tesla self-driving? Yeah, it sounds like we're talking data, like with Tesla self-driving, because we're going to we're going to try data and we're going to try algorithms. Isn't that what all the other labs are doing? And those don't work much at all. We try data.
That is acceptable. Apple, for example, I believe is is is. I'm not going to be wrong, but either way, it's a it's a bit strange. I just want, you know, Apple doesn't make phones; they they sell phones to China. Microsoft doesn't doesn't make any factory thing, even for Xbox. That that's outsource. They again, it's they're Apple is digital, Microsoft is digital, Google's Apple is digital. So if you have a human emulator, you you can basically one of the five companies in the world overnight, and you would access a trillion dollars for free. It is this. It's not like it's small amount. I see. You're saying basically like very figures there are just like so like they're all rounding errors compared to the actual TAM. So just like focus on the TAM and how to get there. I mean, if you take something as as simple as say customer service, if you have to integrate with the APIs of of existing corporations, many of which don't even have an API, so you've got to make one, and you've got to wait through legacy software. That's extremely slow. If, however, if AI can simply take whatever is given to the outsourced customer service company that they already use, and do customer service using the apps that they already use, then you you have you you you can make tremendous way in customer service, which is I think one percent of the world economy. Something like that, just close to a trillion dollars. All in, for customer service, and and and and there's there's no there's no registry. It just you can just merely say we'll outsourced for a fraction of a cost, and there's no integration needed. Can you imagine some kind of categorization of intelligence tasks where there is breadth of customer service done by very many people, but you know many people can do this, and then there's difficulty where you know do this. A best-in-class turbine engine, like presumably 10 percent more efficient turbine engine, that could be imagined by intelligence, but we just haven't found it yet. Or you know, GPU ones are just you know, few bites of data. Where do you think you want to play in this? Is this a loss of you know, really intelligence, intelligence, or is this the very pinnacle of cognitive tasks? Well, I'm just using customer service as like something that's it's a it's a
Because it's it's kind of the same path that Tesla used to create self driving, you know self driving cars, driving yeah, a computer screen. So it's self driving computer essentially. Oh, you're saying it's the past just following human behavior and training on vast amounts of human behavior. But but isn't that I mean isn't that isn't that training? I mean obviously I'm not going to spill out you know most sensitive secrets on a podcast. You know I need to at least streamline this for that. What will AI's business be like? Is it going to be consumer enterprise? What's the next thing that's going to be? Is it just going to be similar to other labs where they just you're saying labs? Corporations. Corporations. AI goes to the beyond. I mean maximizing corporations. Yeah. But it's just because they're perfect themselves. But yeah, what's the business model? What are the revenue streams in a few years time? Um, things are going things are going to change very rapidly. Like I'm saying, obviously, you know, AI the super sonic tsunami of evolution. Um, so really, what's going to happen is, especially when you have human robot scale, is they will just provide they'll make products and provide services far more efficiently than human corporations. So amplifying the productivity of human corporations is is simply a short term thing. So you're expecting fully literal corporations rather than like SpaceX becomes part AI and I think there'll be digital corporations, but it it this some of this is going to sound kind of doomerish, okay, but I'm just I'm just saying what I think will happen is not it's not meant to be doomerish or anything else. Just just like this is what I think will happen. Um, is that is that pure AI corporations that are purely AI robotics will vastly outperform any corporations that have people in the loop. Um, so you can you can think of say like like like computer used to be jobs that humans had. You you would go and get jobs computer where you do calculations. Um, and that that had like entire skyscrapers full of humans, like yeah, twenty thirty floors of humans just doing calculations. Um, now that entire skyscraper of humans doing calculations um can be replaced by a laptop with a spreadsheet. That spreadsheet can do vastly more calculations than an entire building full of humans computers. Um, so you can think about okay, well, what if only
Basic custom design motors, gears, car electronics, controls, sensors, everything has to be designed from physics principles. There is no self-driving. What is, and will you build a manufacturer at this scale? Yes. Is anything hard except the hand from an ablation point of view, or once you solve the hand, are you good? For an electromechanical stuff, the the hand is more difficult than everything else combined. The human hand turns to be quite something, but but you also need the real world intelligence. So the intelligence that tells us to go for the car applies very well to the robot, which is you know primarily vision, but the the car takes more vision, but also actually also is listening for sirens, so you know it's taking the environmental measurements to be able to handle the data. Combining that with with video is primarily video, and then outputting the control commands. So like, the intelligence taking one and a half kilobytes a second of video and outputting two kilobytes a second of control outputs with the video, the six hundred kilobits and the control for a continuous. One intuition you could have for when we get this robotics stuff is that it takes quite a few years to go from the compelling demo to actually being able to use in the real world. So ten years ago, you had really compelling demos of self-driving, but only now we have robots seeing the way more and all these services scaling up. Doesn't this shouldn't this make one pessimistic on say household robots because we don't even quite have the compelling demos yet of say the really advanced hand. Well, we've been working on the humanoid robots now for a while, so I guess when five or six years or something like that, and and a bunch of things that we do for the car are applied to the robot. So we use the same, just like AI chips in the in the robot as the car. We use the the same basic principles. It's it's very much the same AI. You've got you know many more degrees of freedom for robot than you do for car, but really if you think of for like as like a pedestrian, AI is really mostly compression and car is kind of two pedestrians. So for video, you've got to do tremendous compression, and and the and you've got to do the compression just right. You've got to compress the, you like ignore the the things that don't matter, and like you don't care about the
Play and and testing different tasks, and then the Tesla has quite a good reality generator, like the physics accurate reality generator that we we made made this for the cars. We do the same thing for the robots, and actually have done for the robots. So, so you have, you know, a few tens of thousands of humanoid robots doing different tasks, and then you've got you can do millions of simulated robots in the simulated world, and you use the the tens of thousands of robots in the real world to close the simulation to reality gap, close the sim to real gap. How do you think about the synergies between XAI and optimising your highlighting? Like, you need this world model. You maybe want to use really smart intelligence as the control plane, and to make rockets like doing this slower planning, and then like the motor policy is a little lower level. Yeah, what will the sort of synergy between these things be? Yeah, so you use rocket orchestrate the behavior of the optimist robots. So, let's say you wanted to build a factory, the optimist of then rocket organize the optimist robots, give them assigned tasks to build the factory for to produce what you want. Then you need to merge XAI and so that because these things are in the loop. What are we talking about? We're one more unit in the line. What What are you waiting to see before you say we want to manufacture one hundred thousand optimists? Is it like optimise? Since we're defining the the the problem now, we can define the plural of the problem now. So we we're we're going to problem now the plural as optimise. Okay. Is there something on the hardware side you want to see? Do you want to see better actuators, or is it just you want the software to be better? What are we waiting for before we get like mass manufacturing three? No, we're we're going forward with mass manufacturing, but using current current hardware is good enough that you are going. You should you just want to deploy as many as possible now. I mean, it's very hard to scale production, but so yeah, I think optimist three is the the right version of robots to yeah to to produce maybe something on the order of like a million units a year. I mean, you want to go to optimist four before you went to ten million units a year. Okay, you can do a million year optimist three. Yeah, it's
It's it's relevant, you know. It's pretty tall, and it's it's a lot of intelligence. So it's going to be more expensive than um, it's small robots, not intelligent, but more capable. Yeah, a lot more. I mean, like the thing is, over time, as observable as possible, the the cost will drop very quickly. And what will these first million optimizers apply? Yeah, do like what other high investments be? I think you you would start with with simple tasks that you can count on them doing well, but in the home or in factories, like the the best for robots in the beginning will be any any continuous operation, so any twenty four seven operation because then you because they can they can work continuously. Yeah, what fraction of the work in the factory that is currently done by humans can generate? Yeah, um, I'm not I'm not sure. Maybe like ten twenty percent, maybe more. I don't know. It's we would we would use we would not like reduce our head count. We would we would for sure increase our head count to be clear. Right, but but we would increase our output, so the the units produced per human, like total total number of humans at Tesla will increase, but the um the output of robots and cars will increase just proportionately, like much much. Yeah, number of cars and robots produced per human will increase dramatically, but but number of humans will increase as well. We're talking about Chinese manufacturing a bunch here, and we're also talking about you know we're talking about some of the policies that are out there, like you mentioned the the solar tariffs, yeah, and using the idea because you know we can scale up solar in the US. Well, just just the output in the US needs to scale up. Right, we can do that. Like good resources, we can get it somehow. Yeah, but where I was going with this is, if you were in charge, if you were setting all the policies, what else would you change? Um, you change the solar tariffs. Yeah, I would say anything that is limiting factor for like just the the the good US providers is not like very valuable. So, permitting reform and stuff as well. Yeah, yeah. There's a lot of permitting reforms that happen. A lot of permitting is state based, though. Um, but anything but but this demonstration is is good. Um, moving permitting robots. Um,
Refine it, put it into a magnet, put it into a motor, sell it simply, and send it back to America. So, we're really missing a lot of oil refining in America. Isn't this worth a policy intervention? Yeah, well, I think lots of things have been done on that front, but we kind of need optimists frankly to build oil refineries. So, you think the main advantage China has is the abundance of skilled labor, and that's that's the thing optimists say. But we also need. China's got a four times population, but we need. So, I mean, there's this concern if you think about humans in the future that, like, right now, if it's the skilled labor manufacturing that's determining who can build more humanoids, you know, China has more of those, it manufactures more humanoids, therefore it gets the it gets the optimist future first. Well, and just like keeps going, if you're sort of pointing out that sort of getting to a million optimist, yeah, requires the manufacturing that the optimist supposed to help us get to, right? You can you can close that closed loop quickly with a small number of optimist. Yeah, so you close the closed loop to help have the robots build the robots, and then we can, you know, try to get to 10 million units a year. Maybe if you start getting 100 million units a year, you're going to be the most competitive country by far. We definitely can't win with just humans because China has four times the population, right? And frankly, America's been winning for so long that we, you know, just like like the poorest fourth, you know, has been winning for a very long time, tend to get complacent and entitled, and that's why they stop winning because it's you know, there are workers out there more. So, frankly, just observation is the average productivity in China higher than in the US. So, it's not just that the four times population, but the the amount of work that people put in is higher. So, you can like you can try to rearrange the humans, but you're still one quarter of the, you know, it's still the productivity that helps is is the same. I think actually might be yeah, China might have an advantage on productivity, but we will do one quarter of the amount of things as China. So, we we
Are planning to do refining. I mean, how many of you are into? Very few. What are you planning to refine? You know, be ready for changing, test production, overseas sales, in quantity. What do you think happens in global markets? Chinese production, overseas sales up. Well, China is extremely competitive in manufacturing, so I think this is going to be a massive flood of Chinese vehicles and and other basically most manufacturing things. I mean, as is as I said, like China is like, like just twice as much refining as the rest of the world combined. So if you go, if if if you just go down to like, for instance, to their supply chains, like like like the base of energy, then you go mining and refining. Those those foundation layers are like China as rough guess. China is twice as much refining as the rest of the world combined. So any given thing is going to have Chinese content because China is doing twice as much manufacturing refining work as the rest of the world. And and then the the the the whole finished product with cars, China is powerhouse. I think this year China will exceed three times U. S. Electricity output, and like electricity output is a is a reasonable proxy for, you know, for the economy. So like, you know, run the factories and run run everything you need electricity. So electricity is is is a good proxy for the for the real economy. And so China is China passed three times U. S. Electricity output. It means it's industrial capacity. That's a rough estimation. It's three times that, or three times that in the U. S. Reading between the lines, it sounds like what you're saying is, absent sort of humanoid recursive miracle in the U. S. On the sort of like whole manufacturing energy, raw materials chain, like China will just like dominate whatever comes like AI or manufacturing use or manufacturing humanoids. In the absence of breakthrough innovations in the U. S. , China will utterly dominate. You're just saying yes. Robotics being the main breakthrough innovation. Well, if you do like to scale AI in in space, like basically need space, you need the humanoid robots, you need real AI, you need um the multi-tiered two orbit, um like let's just say like if we get the master on the moon going, whatever thing, um, then I think we'll solve all our problems. Yeah. So this is like, I call that winning. I
So my my training set is is is very is enormous and of a very wide range. The generally thing I look for are well points of evidence of exceptional ability. So it's but like it's it's and these things can be like pretty off the wall. It doesn't need to be in the in the domain, the specific domain, but evidence that so evidence of exceptional ability. So if if somebody can cite like even one thing, but say three things where you go wow wow wow, then that's a good sign. But but why do you have to be the one to determine that? Because I can't be. It's impossible. Right. I mean, total head count of people coming to interview people. Right. But in the early days, what was that that you were looking for that couldn't be delegated in those interviews? Um. Well, I guess I'd need to build my training set. So it's not like I've got thousands here. I would make mistakes. Yes. Then I'd be able to see where I thought somebody would work out well, and then why why did not work out well, and what what can I do to against all myself? Yes. To in the future have a better batting average when interviewing people. So and my batting average is not perfect, but it's very high. What are some surprising reasons people don't work out? Surprising reasons. Um, they don't understand technology and they don't understand it. But like, no, you you like you've even got like the long tail now of like I was really excited about this person didn't work out. Curious what happens. Yes. So the I mean, generally when I tell people, when I tell myself, I exceptionally is don't look at the resume, just believe believe your interaction. So if the resume may seem very impressive, like wow, you know, the resume looks good, but if if the conversation after twenty minutes is is that conversation is not wow, you should believe the conversation, not the not the not the paper. I feel like part of maths is this. Yeah, there was this meme in the media a few years back about Tesla being a revolving door of executive talent, but actually, I think when you look at Tesla's had a very consistent and internally promoted executive bench over the past few years, and that's SpaceX. You've got all these folks like Martin Kessler and Steve Jobs, and so they're transforming companies. No, Matt. Yeah
Valley, it's it's easier for people to just they don't have to change their life very much. They can just, you know, their commute can be the same. So how do you prevent that? How do you prevent the pixie dust effect for everyone trying to coach other people? Um, they they don't think there's much we can do to to stop it. But that that's like that's one reason why the but the really being in Silicon Valley, um, and uh, and having the pixie dust, then at the same time, um, meant that the they were just very very close for equipment. Probably being in Austin helps. Austin, yeah, it it helps. I mean, Texas still has a majority of its engineering in California, so the you know, for getting engineers to move, it's a big significant significant other problem. Yes, so the mothers have jobs. Yeah, yeah, exactly. So, um, for start based that was particularly difficult. Yes, since the odds of you know finding another specific job, yeah, yeah, yeah, quite quite difficult. I mean, it's like a technology model story, yeah, thing. Um, yeah, remote and mostly dudes, but again, if you go back to the number of stuff, yeah, if you go, but if you go back to these people who really, um, been very effective in technical capacity at that specific place and and those sorts of places, what do you think they have in common? Other than, like, is it just that they're very sharp on the you know rocketry or the you know the technical foundation, or do you think it's something organizational, something about their ability to work with you? Is it their ability to like be, you know, flexible but not too flexible? What makes a good sparring partner for you? I don't think a sparring partner. I mean, if somebody gets things done, I I love them if they don't. So it's pretty straightforward. It's not like some idiosyncratic thing. It's somebody I excuse well, I'm a huge fan, and if they don't, I'm not. But it's it's not about matching my idiosyncratic preferences. So we try not to have it be matching my idiosyncratic preferences. So yeah, yeah, but generally I think it's going to be too hard for, um, talent and drive and trustworthiness
And that would and that would result in failure. But sometimes the tiny things are decisive in victory. Famously, switched the starship design from composite to steel. Yes. And you made that decision, like that wasn't a you know people were going around like oh we found something better, boss. Like that was you encouraging people against resistance. Can you tell us how you came to that whole composite steel switch? Yeah, so desperation. The originally, yeah, we were going to make starship out of carbon fiber, and carbon fiber is pretty expensive. Like the the the you know you can generally when you do volume production you can get any given thing to be just under production material cost. The problem with with carbon fiber is that material cost is very high. So it's about it's about fifty times, but particularly for high strength, especially carbon carbon fiber that can handle cryogenic oxygen, it's it's it's like quadruple fifty times the cost of steel. And at least in theory, we'll be lighter. People normally think of steel as being heavy and carbon fiber as being light. For room temperature applications, you know, like say more of room temperature applications, like a Formula One car, static structure or any any kind of structure really is is going to you are going to probably be better with the carbon fiber. The problem is that we were trying to make this enormous rocket out of carbon fiber, and our progress was extremely slow. And it being picked in the first place just because it's light. Yeah, like at first glance, like most people think that the choice for making something light would be carbon fiber. The now the thing is that so we we make something very enormous out of carbon fiber, and then you try to have the carbon fiber be efficiently cooled, not not room temperature cooled, because like you've got you know sometimes you got like fifty layers of of carbon fiber, and carbon fiber is really carbon string glue, and and you don't have high strength, you know, materials so something that can withstand high pressure carbon. And if if you have something that's gigantic, the answer is going to be better than the rocket. So we try to make the the material that's bigger than any material that's ever existed, or do room temperature, which takes a long time and has issues. But the fundamental issue is that we're just making very slow progress with with carbon fiber. So I think the meta question is why it had to be you who made that decision. There
Difficulty of friction steering, especially doing that at scale was hard enough at three point six meters in diameter, nine meters above. Then, so what about steel? And so now I had a clue here because some of the early U.S. rockets had used very thin steel. The Atlas rockets used steel blunting. So it's not like steel never been used before; it actually had been used. And when you look at the material properties of stainless steel, especially very if it's been very full hard, strain hardened stainless steel at cryogenic temperature, the the strength to weight is actually similar to carbon fiber. So if you if you look at the material properties at room temperature, it looks like the steel is is going to be twice as heavy. But if you look at the material properties at cryogenic temperature of full hard steel, stainless, of thickly grades, then the you actually get to a similar strength to weight as carbon fiber. And in the case of Starship, the fuel and the oxidizer are cryogenic. So for for Falcon nine, the fuel is rocket propellant grade kerosene, basically like a very fuel for jet fuel, which is but but that is that is for room temperature or the reaction. We actually chill it slightly below, which feels like a bit. We chill it, but but it's not cryogenic. In fact, if we made it cryogenic, it would just turn to wax. So, but for Starship, it's liquid methane and liquid oxygen. They they they are liquid at similar temperatures. So, so basically, almost the entire primary structure is at cryogenic temperature. So then you've got three hundred series stainless that's strain hardened. The closest type almost all things at cryogenic temperature actually has similar strength to weight as carbon fiber, but costs fifty times less per material, and is very easy to work with. You can weld stainless steel outdoors. You could smoke cigar while welding stainless steel. It's just like it's it's very resilient. You can modify easily. If you want to attach something, you just weld it on. So very easy to work with, very very low cost, and like I said, at cryogenic temperature, similar strength to weight to carbon fiber. Then when you factor in that that we don't we don't we we have much reduced heat shield mass because the melting point of steel is much greater than the melting point of aluminum. It's about twice the melting point of aluminum, and so it just runs the
Plywood that doesn't have wrinkles in it. So, because at that large scale, you have to have many, many sort of layers of the carbon plywood. You've got to cure it any better, cure it such way that it doesn't have any wrinkles or or defects. The carbon fiber is much less resilient than than steel. It has much less toughness. So, I think like stainless steel will will scratch and and and the carbon fiber will will tend to shatter. So, so toughness being the area of the stress strain curve. So, you you are generally happy to be better with steel. Stainless steel, for instance. One of those starship question. So, I think it's started about two years ago, and it was spectacular, and that was awesome. It was very cool to see in a whole bunch of ways. What they noticed was that people really took pride in the simplicity of things. Where you know, everyone was telling you how starship is just to be so can, and you know, we're hiring welders, and you know, if you welder any industrial project, you can weld to your boss. There was a lot of pride in the simplicity. And well, exactly, starship is very complicated. So that's I am getting asked: is are things simpler or are they complex? I think maybe just what they're trying to say is that you know you don't have to have like project experience in the rocket industry to work on starship. You know, someone just needs to be smart and work hard and be trustworthy, and they can work on a rocket. They don't they don't need prior rocket experience. Starship is the most complicated machine ever made by humans, but far longer in what regards anything really. It's the the reason it's a more complex machine. Yeah, I mean, I tell you, just just pretty much any any project I can think of would be easier than this, and that's why no one has made a reusable. Nobody has ever made a fully reusable rocket. It's a very, very hard problem. The many smart people have tried before, very smart people, but they've always failed. So we haven't succeeded yet. You know, Falcon is partially reusable, but the up to stage is not. Starship will achieve like the design that it can be fully reusable, and that full reusability is what will enable us to do multi-pilot civilization. Can you say about the thrills?
It's kind of fundamentally consumable. Well, yeah, but you're very fast. You're horrible. So consumable, it lasts very long time. Fair. So it just lasts very long time. Um. That's just yeah. Try. I mean, we have brought the ship back and had it do a soft landing, and done that a few times. But it lost a lot of tiles, you know. You know, it was not reusable without a lot of work. Yeah. So even though it landed, did it did come to soft landing? It was would not have been reusable without a lot of work. Um, and and that so it's not really reusable in that sense. That's the biggest problem. I mean, is fully reusable heat shield. Um. So, so if you want to be able to land it, um, re-fluff it, inflate it again. Um, without, yeah, you can't do this laborious inspection of, you know, forty thousand tiles or something. I I'm curious how you drive. Like when you when you read biographies of yours, it just it it seems like you're just able to drive this sense of urgency and drive this sense of like this is the this is the thing that can scale. Um, and I'm curious why you think other organizations, or like SpaceX and Tesla, are really big companies now, and you're still able to keep that culture. What goes wrong with other companies? So they're not able to do that. I don't know. Um. But like today, you said you had like a bunch of SpaceX meetings. Like, what what is it that you're doing there that's like keeping that? It's adding urgency. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, I don't know. I guess the urgency comes from, firstly, the company. So my sense of urgency, I have like my medical sense of urgency. So yeah, that medical sense of urgency projects through the rest of the company. Is it because of constantly is there like, you know, Elon said a crazy deadline that I don't get it. I know what happens to me. Is it just you're able to identify bottlenecks and get rid of them so people can move fast? Like, how do you how do you think about why your company is able to move fast? Yeah, constantly addressing the right factor. So, um, I mean, I mean on the deadline front, I mean, I
Through the same detail, and I'm a big believer in keeping all meetings where the individuals instead of having the person report to me say things; it's everyone that reports to them says something in the tech review, and and and they can't be adversperation. So otherwise, you you're going to get the, you know, glazed. Let's say these things. Exactly. And you, how do you do that? And then you just call them randomly, like now just go around the room. Everyone provides an update. So, I mean, it's it's a lot of information to go through because you've got you've got them so frequently weekly, weekly. You've got to snapshot of what that person said, and and you can and you can then, you know, plot the progress points. You know, sort of mentally plot the points and go and say, "Are we converging to a solution, or not? " Or are we, you know, like I'll I'll take drastic action only when I've proved that success is not a set of possible outcomes. So, when I say we're when I finally reach conclusion, okay, unless drastic action is done, we have no chance of success. Then I must take drastic action. So that's that's the case back in twenty eighteen took drastic action and fixed the problem. How many, you know, you you've got many many companies, and each of them, it sounds like you do this kind of deep engineering understanding of what the underlying factors are, so you can do these reviews of people. Yeah, you've been able to scale up to five, six, seven companies. You've been in many companies. You have many different many companies than them. What what determines the maximum here? We have like eighty companies. Eighty. No, but you you have so many already. Like that's that's already remarkable. This current number, yeah, exactly. And so we can be very competitive. Um, it's like so it depends on situation. So, I actually don't don't have regular meetings with corporate company. So, corporate companies are cruising along. Look, if basically if something is working well and making good progress, then there's no point in me spending time on it. So, actually, I look at how we're going to where the where the limiting factor or the problem, where things fall apart, and um, or where we're pushing against um, like what what is holding
They're trying to figure out how to scale two million plus tons toward careers. Quite challenging. Can I ask a question? So you you said about um, optimization AI that they're gonna result in double digit growth rates within a matter of years of the economy. Yeah. Yes. What was the point of the debt? If the economy is gonna grow so much, well, I think it's ways and fraud, not good things to have. You know, um, I I was actually pretty worried about. I guess. I mean, I think in the absence of AI and robotics, we're actually totally screwed because the national debt is, probably like crazy. Um, now interest payments the interest payments the national debt exceed the military budget, which is a trillion dollars to over a trillion dollars just interest payments. Um, you know, I was like, I was like, okay, pretty concerned about that. Maybe if I spend some time, we can slow down the bankruptcies in the states and give us enough time for the AI and robotics to, you know, solve the national debt or not solve it's the only thing that could solve the national debt. Like, we're one thousand percent gonna go bankrupt as a country and fail as a country without AI and robotics. Nothing else will solve the national debt. Um, and so so we would we would like to, well, we just need we we need enough time to get well the AI and robotics to not go bankrupt before then. I I guess the thing I'm curious about is when those start, you have the enormous um ability to enact reform and not not enormous. Sure, sure, but but totally by your point that like it's important that AI and robotics drive productivity, drive GDP growth, but why not just directly go after the things you're pointing out? You know, like the tariff on certain components or whether it's like permanent. I'm not the president. And very hard to cut to cut to even even to cut things that are obvious ways and fraud, like like ridiculous ways and fraud. Um, what I just covered that is it's extremely difficult even to cut very obvious ways and fraud from the government. Um, because the the government is operating on like who's complaining? Like if if and if you cut payments to fraudsters, they immediately come up with the most sympathetic sounding reasons to continue the payment. They don't say please keep the fraud going. They say you know it's they're like you're killing baby pandas.
During the Biden administration, and cashed it roughly half a trillion dollars. So don't take my word for it. Take it or for during the Biden administration. This, how about that from this social security mechanism? It's the one of many. It's important to appreciate that the government does not is very ineffective at stopping fraud because it's it's it's not like like it was a company like stopping fraud. You've got motivation because it's affecting the earnings of a company, but the government just just they just print money. So it's not like you need you need caring and confidence, and these are not supplied at the federal level. Yeah, I mean, when you go to the DMV, do you think, well, this is about your confidence? Well, now imagine it's worse than the DMV because it's the DMV that can print money. So was it not possible? These state level DMVs need to the states more or less need to stay on the level of the government, but the federal government just prints for money. Well, was it not possible if there is a cashing half a trillion in fraud? Why wasn't it possible to cut all that? Because when when actually we did, we actually you you really have to stand back and recalibrate your expectations for confidence because you are operating in a world where you know you you've got to sort of make ends meet, like you know you've got to pay your bills, you've got to you know buy your microphones. Yeah, yeah, exactly. So, so you you if you don't have it's it's not like there is a giant largely uncaring monster bureaucracy. It's not even it's and a bunch of nefarious computers that are just that are just sending payments. Like one of the things that that the worst thing that there was, and this sounds so simple, that probably will say, let's say a hundred billion maybe two hundred billion a year. It's simply requiring that payments from the main treasury computer, which is called Pam, like payment accounts master or something like that, two five trillion payments a year, requiring that any payment that goes out have a payment appropriation code, making mandatory not optional, and that you have anything at all in the comment field. Because you see, you have to recalibrate how dumb things are. We think payments being sent out with no appropriation code, not not taking back to any actual appropriation, and no explanation. And this is why the Department
You have high confidence, you try hard. You have high confidence and high carrying, but still, forward is not not zero. Now, now imagine it's much bigger scale, there's much less confidence and much less carrying. You know, back in the back in the day, we we try to manage forward down to about one percent of the the paper volume, and that was very difficult to manage. Manage confidence and carrying to get forward merely to one percent. Now imagine that there's an organization where there's much less carrying, much less confidence, and much more than one percent. How do you feel now looking back on kind of politics and and doing stuff there? It feels like from the outside in, the you know, two things have been quite impactful: one, the American plan to the acquisition of of Twitter at the time, but also it seems like there's been a hard take. So, what's your what's your grading of the whole experience? Well, I think I think there's things need to be done to maximize the quality of the future. So, politics generally is very tribal, and it's it's very tribal. And people lose their objectivity in politics. Like they they generally have trouble seeing the good on the other side or the bad on the other side. That's generally how it goes. I that that I guess was one of the things that surprised me the most is you you often simply cannot reason with people. If they're one tribe or the other, they they simply believe that everything they try does is good and anything the other people try does is bad, and persuading them is otherwise is the worst possible. So, you know, but I think I think overall those actions, the current Twitter getting troubled to do enough, you know, make stuff more angry. I think those I think those actions were good for the world, good for civilization. Yeah, how does it feed into the future, etc. Well, America needs to continue. America needs to be strong enough to last long enough to extend life to other planets and to kind of get high-end AI robotics to the point where we can ensure the future is good and that the the state might you know stand out of progress in AI robotics. How do you feel about you know, optimists, grok, etc. , are going to be leveraged by and not just your company? Any revenue-maximizing company's products will be leveraged by the government over time. How does this concern manifest in
How do you like? How do you prevent that? Well, I think like if you have limited government, um, limited powers of government, which is like really what the U.S. Constitution intends to do, is limit the powers of government, then then you are probably going to have better outcomes than if you have more government. So, which which would be the answer? All governments, right? About all governments. I mean, it's difficult to predict the, like I said, like what's what's what's the end end point or like what is what is many years in the future? It's difficult to predict the the sort of path along along that way. Um, like if civilization progresses, AI will vastly exceed the sum of human intelligence, and and they'll be far more advanced than humans. Um, along the way, what happens? It's very difficult to predict. I mean, it seems like one thing you do just say, um, uh, you are not allowed to whatever government acts are not allowed to use optimists to do X, Y, Z, just write out like a policy. I mean, you you think you treated recently that we're actually having a more constitution, um, and one of those things would be that we we limit what governments are allowed to do with this advanced technology. I mean, yeah, we we we can do what is what. I mean, technically, I mean if the politicians pass a law, uh, then and they can enforce that law, then it's hard to not do that law. The the best thing we can do is is is limited government, where you know you have you have the proper checks between executive, judicial, and legislative branches. I guess the the reason I am curious about is this: like at some point, it seems like the limits will come from you, right? Like you got the optimist, you've got the space X, you've got the I think I'll get the powers of the government, or you will get the you like the. I mean, already it's the case with SpaceX that for things that are crucial to the, um, uh, like the government really cares about getting certain satellites up in space, whatever, like it needs SpaceX. Uh, is the is the um necessary contractor, and you are in the process of building more and more of the, um, uh, the technological components of the future that that will have an analogous role in different industries, and you could have
If you can do about a kilowatt per radical, and then you need, you know, hundred million full radical chips to do a hundred gigawatts. So, depending what your assumptions are, you know, that tells you how many chips you need to make. But if you need, if you're going to have a hundred gigawatts power, you need, you know, a hundred million chips running the running kilowatts a second per radical. A hundred megaf, a hundred million chips, depending. Yeah, if if if you if you look at the die size of something like black hole computers or something, and how many you can get out of a wafer, you get like under a dozen or less per wafer. So basically, this is a world where if we're putting that out every single year, you're producing millions of wafers a month. Um, that's the plan with fab. Millions of wafers a month. Advanced process nodes. It's could be some number north of a million. I think. You're doing the memory too. Yeah. We're going to make memory fab. I think the wafer fab's going to do memory. It's going to do logic memory and punch. I'm very curious how somebody like gets started. This is like the most complicated thing man has ever made. And obviously, like if anybody's up to the task, you're up to the task. Like, what do you? So you realize it's a bottleneck, and you go to engineers and like, what is the next? Like, what what are you telling to do? I want a million wafers a month in 2030. What is the next? Like, what do you? That's right. Do you like call it SMEL? Like, what is the next one? What is the next? That's so much task. Well, we make a little fab, and see what happens. Make a mistake, scale up a little, and then make a bigger one. Is the little fab done? No, it's not done. We're still working. We're not going to keep that going. It's going to come out of a group. They're like throwing hardware over the bloody building. You know, see it's structural progress on next year, you know, in real time. So no, we. I mean, like, I don't know. We could just founder and fail here,
Possibly interesting and motivating to do, but but you know going back to limiting factor, you know that brings about many times the the current limiting factor is the entire frame, you know, in the sort of twenty twenty nine twenty like in the in the three three to four entire frame, um, it's chips, um, in in the one year timeframe, it's it's energy, power production, electricity. Like it's it's not clear to me that there's enough usable electricity to turn on all the the chips that are being made. Um, towards the end of the year, I think we're going to have real trouble turning on, like, chip out would exceed the the ability to turn chips on. What's your plan? What are you going to do with that world? Well, we're trying to accelerate electricity production. Um, I guess that's that's maybe one of the reasons that um, XAI will be maybe the leader, hopefully the leader, um, is that we'll be able to turn on more chips than other people can turn on faster. Um, because we're we're we're good at hardware, and and and generally the the innovations from the corporations that that call themselves the the ideas tend to flow. Like it's it's weird to see that there's like more than about six months difference between um, like the ideas travel back and forth um with the people, so so I think you sort of hit the hardware wall, and um, and whatever whichever company can scale hardware the fastest will be the leader. So I think XAI will be able to scale hardware the fastest, and they'll almost likely will be the leader. You you jokes are you know um, we're talking about you know using the the limiting factor again, but I actually think there's something deeper, and if you look at a lot of things we've touched on, other parts of the many kind of the end, like if you think of a small and low agency company, it would have some bottleneck and not really be doing anything about it. Um, you know, market reasons have the line of most people are willing to endure any amount of chronic pain to avoid acute pain, and I feel like a lot of the cases we're talking about are just leading into the acute pain, whatever it is. Like, okay, we got to figure out how to, you know, work with steel, or we got to figure out how to run the chips in space, or like, we
