Jensen, thank you for doing this today. I'm happy to do it. Nice to see you. It's nice to see you. Thank you for your time. My first question: We've heard from some of the top CEOs, Dario Amadei, Sam Altman, Elon Musk, saying that we need to pace the development of AI. You've got whistleblowers saying that the end of humanity could be within ten years. Do you agree with this? Well, first of all, AI technology is is incredibly powerful. It could, of course, do incredible good, and it could be applied to terrible applications as well. And so, so we we have to make sure that when we're developing this technology, we develop it safely. And the industry is transitioning from developing an AI technology that was that was that is becoming capable, meaning that this the first part of this year we went through a transition where AI became useful. And it became useful. The demand for it is incredible. Token generation and these AI products are now profitable and actually incredibly profitable. So many companies are adopting it. OpenAI's latest Azure is incredible. We're using it all over the place. We use Cloud Code. We use Cursor. SpaceX SpaceX AI product. We use cognition. And so, the capability of the technology has now reached extremely useful state. And so, these companies are transitioning from being a lab trying to get the technology to work to now a products company. And so, in fact, you know, even calling it a lab kind of tells you something. It was research for the first ten fifteen years, and now all of a sudden, in the last six months, practically, the industry has shifted to high production ramp mode. And so, so I think that all of the all of the the reactions that are happening are part of that transition at its core. Are they so correct assessments of what could happen? Are we all going to be, in the words of some, gone in a decade? No, that's that's completely false, and that's that kind of narrative. It's dramatic, gets a lot of attention. Yeah, of course, obviously, it's gotten the attention of the press, and I think at its core they care deeply that the products are built safely, the transitioning from a lab to engineering. They have to dedicate a lot more of their research researchers, a lot more of their compute to safety. That's that's in in the case of developing products, there
You know, the land of laws, and it's the reason why we feel safe and secure, governed, and we have all kinds of laws and regulations applied to each and every one of those applications. Whether it's food, air travel, anything. Yes, what's what's what's the missing part? Tell me the missing part. I'm curious to know your opinion. Why you think there are no missing parts when someone like Dario Amadeo or Samuel Mendes saying, "We'd like to see regulation. " I think I think the what I was responding to is in the case of both of the labs, one lab had four incidents, cybersecurity incidents triggered by them. Another one just had a couple more, and so so before, but in both of those incidents, has plenty of laws to deal with. Yes, cybersecurity, unauthorized entry, laws you have, you have damage, damage liabilities you have, you know all kinds of liabilities associated with cybersecurity. You have all kinds of liabilities associated with products, and so if your product does harm, if your product doesn't perform as as you promised, and if you enter into contracts with companies for service level agreements, there's plenty of laws associated with that. My point is, apply those first, and don't let don't let this this doomsday narrative cause somebody to relieve them of the laws that currently exist. Now, go go go and read between the lines. There's a lot of there's they're actually not asking for more laws. They're asking to be relieved of the laws we do have, and I I think that that's a problem. We have plenty of laws, so let's apply those first. So, do you think then are these companies asking to be regulated in a sense because they don't want to have to handle this themselves and take their own responsibility for what they're building? What they're moving from a lab to a product company, from a from a from a non customer revenue producing to a customer revenue producing business, and and that transition must be extraordinary because they're doing it so fast. And these are two of the most consequential technology companies in history. They're incredible, incredible talents of researchers. There, they're doing excellent work, but it doesn't change the fact. The fact is, they're transitioning from a laboratory into a product service company, generating tens of billions of dollars of revenues, expecting it to be hundreds of billions of dollars of revenues. Both of them increasing their compute capacity
Going public, all of that is new, and it's all happening at the same time. And so, I'm empathetic to the enormity, the enormity, of the challenges that they're dealing with. And I'm also, I also have a lot of confidence in in the capabilities of the teams that they have. These are extraordinary people. You trust. Yeah, you trust. I believe in them. I believe in the people. I also empathetic of the circumstances. I don't approve of deflections and distractions about the end of the world. And and I rather them focus on the things that I know they're focused on. Their engineers are absolutely able to understand that that the incidents they had requires them to create more secure sandboxes and isolation and containment of their experiments. I am certain that they have learned that they need to monitor much more closely all of their software as it's operating during testing and eval. I am certain that they work if their if their software interacts with external from their cloud interacts with external clouds and other services that they should let people know. And if incidents were to happen, to make sure that they share it publicly, so that the whole industry can learn from it and we can all improve ourselves. This is how the cybersecurity industry works. You know, I just so you know right now, all over the world, there's cyber attacks. Right. And there's all over the world, engineers are working feverishly to patch their software, improve their software, improve vulnerability. These are incredibly complex systems. The fact that we have open software and we have open source software so that all the companies could defend themselves and upgrade their software is one of the reasons why the industry works and it's working right now as we speak. And we watch each other's back. There are hundreds of companies that work together as a community, and and you know we have the ace ace benefit of having a lot of defenders against attackers. And and so there's there's a lot of stuff to to to unpack about the incidents they had, but it doesn't change the fact that they're currently doing they're back to grounding themselves in engineering. They're going to improve their engineering. They're going to invest a lot more in evaluations and benchmarking and testing, and that's just a good transition for them. Curious, you know, as Americans look at you, you're the CEO and founder of Nvidia, incredibly the most valuable company in the world. Why should on this specific issue
Do we lose to China? Do you think that's a valid argument? As an advice to every single CEO and every industry, every student, every professor, every member of the American society, we want America to be as prosperous as we can. The more prosperous we are, the richer we are as an economy. The more we could provide for social security, the more we could provide for national military security. The the better we could be a citizen of the world and support other people's challenges and trials and tribulation and pain and suffering. The more philanthropic we can be as a nation, and so I would advise that every single American citizen, everybody in America, pulls in the same direction as hard as we can. So should we slow down, and would that affect the race with China, the Americans standing? We should go as fast as we can, irrespective of anybody else. It's not. If China were to discover a cure for cancer, it's great for us. If China were to invent a new technology for sustainable energy, it's great for us. If China were to lead in many areas of science now, and we were able to learn from them and benefit from it, it's great for us. But listen, we're packing heat as a nation. This is a nation with extraordinary capability, extraordinary inventors. I'm proud to be part of the American technology industry that I would consider one of the three pillars of our national treasures. Of course, our financial system is one of them. Of course, our military is one of them. You know, the the the industry that I serve and part of the technology industry is absolutely one of our national treasures. We are going to go as fast as we can, but how important is it? We're going to go as fast as we can, but we would never, ever, and never should ship products before they're ready, deliver products that are unsafe, and nobody's expecting us to do that. But everybody's expecting us to succeed and help America be as prosperous as possible. David Sachs told me earlier this week that he believes that if we slow down the AI development, then that could do huge damage to the American economy, the American military, and put the United States at a disadvantage. So I just want to clearly understand, like, do you think that we should be pacing the development of AI right now, given where we are vis-a-vis China? First of all, David is incredibly smart. This is thoughtful. He
With the technology, and it's being made available to to Dario and Sam and you know the American labs and American industries, and that's exactly what we're doing. We're delighted to do that. On the other hand, remember that AI is a five-layer cake. It's not just that model. The AI industry represent is represented by the energy sector, the chips sector, the model sector, where where they are the model layer, where they are. You could argue that there's six layers of five, but above that is basically the data and the application layer. And we need every single one of these layers, everybody in America, to win. We want us to win in the energy sector. We like us to lead the world in the chips sector. We like to make sure that every single application company. I love the fact that FedEx is going to be an AI company. I love the fact that Walmart's going to be an AI company. We need every single company in America to be an AI company, not just one company, not just two companies. Remember, yes, take a step back and remember what what AI is. AI is intelligent digital intelligence. Why is it? How is it possible that every single company in America is not supported in have capabilities of digital intelligence? And so, of course, every company is going to be a company of the future with digital intelligence or artificial intelligence as part of the company. And so, I want everybody to win, including the chips industry. And so, do you disagree with Dario's position that we should not sell? I completely disagree that we should ban all American products. The American companies should have advanced capabilities, but then after that, every single layer of the American AI tech stack, including the traditional companies and the AI model companies, every single field and every single chip company, should go and serve the world, compete for the world, serving the world, having market, have capturing market share, capturing economic prosperity. That's all about competing. America is about competition, and we ought to go and compete and not cede entire markets. Our Our market is not his to cede. Our market is not his to cede. We ought to go compete for the world's market. I want to ask you about President Trump and your relationship with him. Do you agree with President Trump? He's one of his closest advisors in tech and AI. He has a lot of advisors. He has a lot of advisors, and he's
Interesting about his ability to make sure that AI does not have an impact on Americans. Do you agree that President Trump has the ability to fend off and prevent AI crisis while he's in office? You know him. You talk to him. Does he have that ability? As the leader of of of America, with all of the laws and regulations we currently have, and recognizing the incidents that we now have in front of us, I believe we have the necessary laws and regulations to handle those things. So he can fend it off, and here you. Yeah, because America has our our system already has a lot of laws and regulations applied to many different sectors of products and services, and so so I think he's saying practical things. And and and like like we've already spoken earlier, I think we have a lot of laws and regulations, and they should be applied. I have two just quick questions for you here. You will be attending the state dinner with China. Is that correct? Next week. Next week, yes. If you get a chance to speak to him about this situation that we're in right now, the one that Americans are so concerned about, what will you say to the president of China? I would I would say that that I'm delighted to see AI technology transitioning from from laboratories to now really useful capabilities and products and services, and because it's making that transition, it would be good for all countries that are developing and advancing AI to do so in a way where we share best practices. Maybe maybe set global standards about product expectations. Work closer together. Yeah, of of course, yeah, of course, work closer together. If we want, look, they want China to be safe. They want China to have the benefit of AI. They want China to prosper, just as we want. You know, states to prosper. I'm glad they have ambitious expectations and aspirations. I want. I wish every country. Don't you wish every country has aspirations and ambitions for a better tomorrow? And I love that about them. As they advance the technology, we have to make sure that we work with each other as much as we can, as much as we can. There are of course areas where we we can't work together for whatever reason. Militarily, what could be military reasons? It could be other national security reasons that that could arise, and those are those are for the governments to sort out. Other than that, I think that would be great for us to work in
All of our trials and tribulations and discourse, you know the messiness of of our country. You know, a lot of ways that's what makes it beautiful, and and it's what makes it work. And and so I'm I'm delighted to to be part of it. Even if you might end up paying about perhaps eight billion dollars over five years, still worth it. Well, I think that that first of all, I'm glad you said that. The fact that I can afford to pay eight billion dollars in taxes over five years is a privilege. It's not that it's not the eight billion dollars; it's the fact that I can afford to pay eight billion dollars. And and so so I'm I'm not afraid of paying taxes. I'm just afraid of being poor. And. I have no trouble contributing to others. I love paying all. I'm I'm famed for for saying that I want to pay all of our employees as much as I can, and I do. Instead of paying people as little as possible to get their work, I try to pay people as much as possible. That's that's a privilege of being successful, and and that's you know, frankly, I'm delighted to it. I I I feel it's a privilege, a responsibility, and nothing would give me more joy than to be able to pay even more taxes. Wait, are you asking to be paying more taxes? No, the more you make, the more taxes you pay. So I'm okay with that. That's true. I'm okay with that. Well, Jensen, thank you. Do we have time for a couple more questions? Or I want to be respectful of your time. I have all the time in the world. Oh, you do. My team. Excellent. Well, I think I want to ask you about something that's really bothering a lot of Americans now. There's a lot of people who don't want data centers. Yeah. In their backyards. Yeah. This is rare bipartisan unity. Yeah. The backlash is bipartisan. In the U. S. , a lot of data centers. What do you say to the people out there who are speaking out and saying we do not want these in our neighborhoods? Well, first of all, I would say, we're sorry we didn't come talk to you sooner. We should have come talk to them sooner. Before before you even stand up and try and data center in some community, some
For the data center builders, you know their community centers and new schools, new baseball fields, new roads, lower property taxes—all of that is on the table. And so I think that that data center builders should go to go to the communities, let them know that they're considering building in the community, let them know that the conversation includes an opportunity to upgrade their their town, lower their taxes, lower their energy bill, and and there should be some minimum. There should be some expectation about, you know, the the aesthetics of these data centers. I think they had to be they had to be designed better. They could be designed better. New approach designing the data center. Although the main concern really is making making something beautiful is is just part of of the equation. I think that today nobody considers the aesthetics of a data center to be part of its part of its functionality. We should think a lot about the energy bills and the the water and the resources that go into it. That seems to be the primary concern from people who are protesting these data centers. And so those things, water consumption—that's a myth now. These data centers use less water. Evaporate—they don't use evaporation anymore. They use less water than a swimming swimming pool evaporating all year long. And so so I think all of that is kind of historic, understandable, but it's a myth now. Energy energy bills going up is actually the the opposite. Most of these data center all these data centers should contribute to the grid, and and and if they contribute when they contribute to the grid, it makes the grid more resilient. They reduce the power cost. It sounds like you're trying to say that people should reconsider having these in their neighborhoods. But we should—you should still do it nicely. You should still make it more aesthetic. The setback should be further away from the towns because you know these data centers there's a lot of traffic and now there's noise and so on so forth. And so you just got to put it—you have to be sensible about these things. We have, you know, we should we should have we should have very early on, on and and had dialogue with the communities before we showed up. It just happened so quickly, and so for that for that it's unfortunate, but going forward we can do a much better job. You started this company. You started Nvidia as a gaming chip company. You were sitting at Denny's. Thirty years ago. I was
It was a it was a magical thing, a almost a mythical thing, where you could have water come into this machinery, and this invisible technology comes out of it, called electricity, and we can transport energy all over the world, replacing candles, and and and stoves and and wood burning ovens and so on so forth, steam engines, and so we we made it possible for this new industry to happen, and a whole industry was built on top of it. Then the second indust the next the the last industrial revolution was really about the information age, and we made it possible by building these data centers for the internet to be connected together, so that we can find anything. And so the first the previous industrial we can power anything, now we can find anything, and where we are today, we created technology called artificial intelligence, where given information, given context, it can reason about it can reason about the information that you gave it, so that it can answer and do anything. It can even use tools like, for example, instead of you and I using a web browser, you and I using PowerPoint, Excel, or you know a three D design tool, you know AutoCAD or Blender or something like that. This software can reason about what you asked it to do. Take the context, the information that you needed to do your intentions, and it does the work for you. And the latest generation from OpenAI called Astro is incredible. Here's tell Astro, here's a picture of my backyard. Here's some other here's some examples that would like maybe a pool or a garden like to place in it. I want you to now turn it into a design file for my gardeners and my carpenters, so that they could do that backyard for me or design that house for me, build that house for me. And so Astro uses all the necessary tools and the images that you gave it, and it creates the CAD files for the house or the kitchen or the backyard. It's incredible. And so that's what AGI does. Now what what is necessary, however, is we now need a new type of infrastructure instead of a power generator, instead of a data center for the internet. We now need a artificial intelligence AI factory. It's an AI factory. Energy comes into it, data comes into it, and these numbers we call tokens, but basically reformulated into intelligence. I know that sounds complicated, but basically energy comes in, intelligence comes out, and it basically is
Is that this is the first time in several decades that the the blue collar workers, the the builders, the crafts people of our country, this is their great opportunity, and all of them are enjoying such prosperity now. And I love seeing that we we have a real shortage of electricians and and and construction workers, but this is just a wonderful opportunity for United States to reindustrialize, be a manufacturing country again, for us to create opportunities for the blue collar workers and and all the builders of our of our of our country, and to bring back building and manufacturing again. And so I think it's incredible. It's creating all kinds of jobs. A lot of people don't see data centers as a manufacturing story, so I think it's interesting. Yeah, that's right. Yeah, it's just a new version of manufacturing. Just as I as I said earlier, power generation is a man it's industry. Power generation is industrial, and you have people in there that building these factories, and and it has to be built. It's built by builders, and data centers are just manufacturing the new version, and this new version of manufacturing products is it's invisible. It's numbers. I know it's it's weird to be manufacturing numbers, but that's essentially what it is.
