Okay, today I am chatting with Terence Tao, who needs no introduction. Terence, I want to begin by having you retell the story of Kepler discovering the laws of planetary motion, because I think this will be a very interesting point to talk about. Yeah, from that. Okay, yeah. So I always am interested in astronomy, and so I love stories of how the astronomers worked out the nature of the universe. So Kepler was working on the work of Copernicus, who was himself working on the work of Ptolemy. So Copernicus very famously proposed the heliocentric model, that instead of the planets and the sun going around the Earth, that the sun was at the center, the solar system, and the other planets were going around the sun. And Copernicus proposed that the orbits of the planets were perfect circles, and his theory kind of fits the observations that the Greeks and Arabs and Indians worked out over centuries. I think Kepler interested. He learned about these theories in his studies, and he made the observation that ratios of the sizes of orbits that Kepler predicted seemed to have some geometric meaning. I think he he started proposing that you know if you if you take say the orbit of say the Earth and you enclose it in maybe a cube, the the outer sphere of that that encloses the cube almost matches perfectly the orbital mass, and so forth. And there were six planets, no, at the time five gaps between them, and there were five perfect platonic solids: the cube, tetrahedron, icosahedron, octahedron, and so he had this this theory which he thought was absolutely beautiful that he could inscribe these platonic solids between the spheres of the planets, and it seemed fit, and it seemed to him like you know God designed the planets was was matching this mathematical perfection of the platonic solids. So he needed data to confirm the theory, and at the time there was only one really high quality dataset that almost existed, which was the so Tycho Brahe, the Danish astronomer, very wealthy Danish astronomer, had managed to convince the Danish government to fund this extremely expensive observatory in fact in the island where he had taken decades of observations of all the planets Mars to every night, every night for which the weather was clear, with naked eyes. This he was last of the of the naked eye astronomers, and so he had all this data which Kepler could use to confirm his theory. And so
Which is as you're detailing. If you add that to Newton's empirical simulation, and then the equation for central acceleration, you get the inverse square law. And so Newton works out. But the reason I think this is an interesting story is I feel like elements can do the kind of thing of like twenty years of trying random relations of some which make no sense as long as there's verifiable data, like Brahe's data, where okay, I'm going to try random things about like musical notes, I'm going to try random things about Platonic objects, I'm going to all these different geometries. And this bias that there's some important thing about the geometry of these orbits. And then one thing works. And as long as you can verify it, you can then draw these empirical regularities. Can then draw actual deep scientific progress. Traditionally, when we talk about history of science, idea generation has always been kind of the prestige part of science. So a scientific problem comes with this many steps. You know, you have to identify the problem, and then you have to identify a good problem to work on, a fruitful problem. And then you need to collect data. You need to figure out a strategy to analyze the data to make hypotheses. And at this point, you need to propose good hypotheses, and then you need to validate. And then you need to write things up and explain. There's a dozen different components. But yeah, the ones we celebrate are these of unique genius moments of idea generation. And yeah, so Kepler certainly had to, as you say, go through many ideas and several which didn't work, and and many that he didn't even publish at all because yeah, they just didn't fit. And that's an important part of the process. Trying all kinds of of random things and seeing if they worked. But as you say, the you know the it it has to match an equal amount of verification, otherwise it's it's flawed. I mean, we we celebrate Kepler, we should also celebrate Brahe for for his his his ideas. Data collection, which was ten times more precise than any previous observation, and that extra decimal point accuracy was essential for Kepler to get his his results. And you know, and he was using you know Euclidean geometry and and and like like the most advanced mathematics he could use at the time to to match his his models with the data. So like all aspects had to be in play. You know, the the
And so, Kepler. So, Kepler's third law is a little like this, except that for third law, instead of the thousand data points that Brahe had, Kepler had like six data points. Like every planet, he knew the mass of orbit and the distance from sun, and there was like five or six data points. And he did what we would now call regression. You know, he he could fit a curve to these six data points, and he got a square law, which was amazing. But actually, he was quite lucky. I mean, that these six data points gave him the conclusion. You know, it's that's not enough to be reliable. There was a later astronomer Johannes Kepler who took the same the same data actually the the distances to to the planets and inspired by Kepler, I think he predicted that the the the distances of planets formed basically a simple geometric progression, that he was able to curve, except there was one there was one missing, so there was a big gap between Mars and Jupiter. His law predicted that there was a missing planet, so it was a kind of a crank theory. Except when Uranus was discovered by Herschel, the the distance Uranus fit exactly this pattern, and then Ceres was discovered, the asteroid between, I think, in the asteroid belt, and also the pattern. So people really started that that that were discovered this amazing new law of of nature, but then Neptune was discovered, and it was completely way off, and you know, and and basically it was just a numerical fluke. You know, there was six data points. Yeah, so maybe one reason why Kepler didn't highlight his third law as much as the first two laws is that maybe instinctively, even though he didn't have much statistics, he kind of knew that with six data points, he had to be somewhat tentative. I see, yeah, with the conclusions. But maybe to ask the question about the analogy more explicitly, does this analogy make sense? To if we have you know, if you have smarter and smarter eyes, and we have millions of them, and then they can go out and hunt for all these empirical regularities, it sounds like the only thing that modern science is finding more things that are for each given field very close to the third law of planetary motion, so that then later on somebody can say, "Oh, we need to explain this. Let's work out the math. Here, here is the inverse square law of
In the future, the AI is coming up with you know the next version of this kind of unifying concept, and how would you identify among millions of papers which might actually constitute progress, but which have much less general unifying ideas? A lot of us the test of time. So, so many great ideas didn't actually get a great reception at the time that they were proposed. It was only after some other scientists realized that that they could take it further and apply it to their own deeper and itself, or like a niche area of AI for a long time. The idea of getting answers entirely through training data and not through first principles, you know, reasoning was was was very controversial, and it took a long time before it actually started bearing fruit. You know, you mentioned the you know there were there were other proposals for computer architectures than zero one that is universal today. I think there were three, you know, zero one, the three value logic, and you know, a two universe maybe a different paradigm. Whatever, whatever showed. People argue that you know the transformer now is is the foundation of all modern large language models, and it was the first deep learning architecture that really was was sophisticated to capture language, but it didn't have to be that way. There could have been some other architecture that was the first to do it, and once that was adopted, it would become standard. So, I think one reason why it's hard to assess whether a given idea is useful is that it it depends on the future. It depends on and it it depends on also on the culture, society, like which ones get adopted, which ones don't. You know, the base ten number system in mathematics is useful much better than the Roman system, for instance. But again, there's nothing special ten. It's it's a system that we it's useful for us because everyone else uses it, and we standardized and we built all our computers and our number representations around it. And so we start with that actually. You know, some people can push for other systems, and that's more, but it's it's just no, it's just no, it's too much inertia. So you can't look at any given scientific achievement purely isolation and give an objective grade without being aware of the context of the past and the future. And so it it may never be something that you can just reinforce and learn the same way that that that you can for much sort of more localized problems. Yeah,
That you have in in your mind. So, you know, one reason why geocentrism held on for so long is is we we had this idea that objects naturally want to stay where they are. Talking notion of physics, and so the idea of of moving, you know, how can we want all all all fall over? You know, once you have universal motion, you know, object motion remains in motion. So, then then then it makes sense. But you had this conceptually; it's it's a very big conceptually to realize that that that earth is is in motion doesn't feel like it's in motion. And like the biggest advance is you know Darwin's theory of evolution. You know, is the the idea that that species are not static, but you know, it's it's not obvious because you you don't see evolution in in in your lifetime. Right now, we can't, but but but you know, it it it seems it seems permanent and static. You know, right now we're going through and and and cognitive version of the scientific revolution where we said human intelligence is the center of the universe, and now we are seeing that there is very different types of intelligence that that that are with very different strengths and so our assessment of which tasks require intelligence from them has to be reevaluated. And so, you know, it's trying to fit AI into sort of theories of scientific progress, and and and what is hard, what is easy, we're struggling quite a lot. We have questions we've never even asked before, or maybe we're the first with that, but now we all have to deal with it. This actually brings up a topic I've been very curious about. You mentioned Darwin's theory of evolution. T here is this book, The Clockwork Universe, by Edward O. Neusch, covers a lot of this era that you were talking about, and he has an interesting observation in there that the Origin of Species was published in eighteen fifty nine, the Principia Mathematica was published in sixteen eighty seven. So, the Origin of Species comes out basically two centuries after the Principia, and conceptually it seems like Darwin's theory is simpler. T here is contemporaneous biologists to Darwin who read the Origin of Species almost actually says, "How stupid not to have thought of that?" Nobody ever said about Principia. They're hiding themselves or not having been into gravity, and so t here is a question: Well, why
How can you score? How persuasive you are? Well, there's the entire marketing department trying to do that. So maybe it's good that AI is not yet optimized to be persuasive. So yeah, there's there's there's a social aspect to science. So even though we try to sort of have an objective side to it with data and experiment and validation, we we still have to tell stories and convince fellow scientists. And that's a soft, squishy thing. Like it's you know it's it's combination of data and yeah and painting a narrative and it's been out of gaps. You know, I mean, you know, so even though and as I said, there were there were pieces of the theory you could not explain, but you could still make a case that you know in the future people would would would would find transitional forms, that they would find the mechanisms and inheritance, and they did. Yeah, I don't know how you can quantify that in such precise way that you can tell to me for something. Maybe that will be forever the human side of science. One takeaway I had from reading and watching your stuff on the Cosmic Decider, by the way, I highly, highly, highly recommend people watch your series through the one run on the Cosmic Decider. But one takeaway was that the deductive overhang in many fields could be so much bigger than people realize. Where if if you just said the right insight about how to study a problem, you might be surprised at how much more you could learn about the world. I wonder if you think that's sort of a product of astronomy at the particular time in history that you're studying, or is just that based on the data that is incident on the earth right now, we could actually divine a lot more than we happen to know. Right. So astronomy was one of the first sciences to embrace data analysis and and and squeezing every last possible drop of information out of information ahead because because data was the bottleneck. I mean, it's still the bottleneck. I mean, it's really hard to to collect good data. So astronomers are the best, or you know, almost world class in in extracting, you know, almost like Sherlock Holmes, like extracting all kinds of conclusions from little pieces of data. I hear that that a lot of points they they prefer higher in astronomy PhD. I understand that they also very interested for other reasons in extracting signals from from from very randomised data. We we do under explore sort of
We're seeing a lot fewer sort of pure AI solutions now, where they just one shot the problem. So, so there was a month where that happened, and and that stopped. Not for lack of trying. I know, through several attempts to get frontier AI to just attack every single problem simultaneously, and they pick up some minor observations, or maybe they they found that some problems already solved in the literature, but there hasn't been any full AI purely powered solution yet. People are using AI a lot, you know. So, someone might use AI to generate a possible strategy, and then another person would use a separate AI tool to critique it, or rewrite it, or generate new data for it, or do the trickery. And and some problems have been solved by ongoing conversation between lots of humans and lots of AI tools, but it it does seem like it was this this one off thing. So maybe one analogy to this problem is like imagine like t here is all these in some sort of mountain range of all kinds of cliffs and walls, and maybe t here is a t here is a little wall which is maybe like three feet high, and one this six feet high, and this fifteen feet high, and then t here is this some mile high cliff, and you try to climb as many of these cliffs as possible, but it's in the dark. We don't know which ones are tall, which ones are short, and so we kind of light some candles and make some maps, and slowly we kind of figure out some of them are climbable, some of them we identify some some partial track in the wall that you can reach first, and then these these AI tools they kind of like jumping machines that can kind of jump, you know, two meters, you know, higher than any human, and sometimes they jump in the wrong direction, and sometimes they crash, but sometimes they they they can reach the tops of of the lowest you know walls that we we could reach before, and so we've basically set them loose in this mountain range hopping around, and and then t here is this exciting period where they they could find all the all the low ones and they they could reach them, but then t here is been of I mean maybe if the next time t here is a big advance in the models and they try again and maybe a few more will be will be will be reached, but it it it's a different style of doing mathematics than sort of the you know so normally we would climb
More of the complementary AI just sort of map out and clear out all the the make all the easy observations, and then identify certain islands of difficulty, which you know then human experts can come and and and work on. So I I see very much a future complementary science. Eventually, you would hope to get both best and that you know and somehow get the best of best of both worlds. I think we we need practice with the right side. It's it's too new. We don't even have the paradigms really to to make further advances with it, but we will, and then science will be unpacking as well after that. To to this point about complementarity, programmers have noticed that they're way more productive as result of the ideals. And I don't know if you as a mathematician feel the same way, but it does seem like one big difference between coding and by researching is that with software, the whole point of the thing is to have some effect on the world through your work, and if it leads to you better understanding a problem or you coming up with some clean abstraction to embody in your code, that is instrumental to the end goal. Whereas maybe with research, the reason we care about solving the Millennium Prize problems is presumably that in the process of solving them, are we discovering mathematical objects or better, better new techniques, and those would understand our civilization's understanding of mathematics. And so the proof is sort of instrumental to the intermediate work. I don't know if you agree with that, that comment, or if that in any way will explain the relative uplift of software versus research, right? Yeah, so certainly in math, the process is is often more important than the problem itself. The problem is kind of a proxy for measuring progress. And I think even in software, there's different types of software tasks. You know, like if you just kind of create a web page, that's the same thing as a thousand other web pages do. There's there's sort of no skill to be learned. Well, there's there's sort of some skill maybe that individual programmer could pick up, but you know, for for kind of boilerplate type code, definitely, you know, it's it's it's some value definitely off off the AI. But you know, sometimes once you make the code, you know, you still maintain it and and and and this issue of upgrading it and making compatible other things, and and that I think I I feel that that program is
Are coming up with whatever coming up with new techniques, doing that versus using existing techniques in a new problem. And what the overhang is, where you just apply every known technique to every open problem, would that just constitute humongous uplift in our civilization knowledge, or would that not be that impressive and useful? It's this is a great question, and we don't have the data to fully answer it yet. Certainly, a lot of work that human mathematicians do, you know, when you take a new problem, one of the first things you do is we just find we we look at all the standard sets of work on similar problems in the past, we try them one by one. And sometimes that works, and that's still what publishing done. That's because the question was important. Sometimes they almost work, and you have to add one more thing to it, and that's also interesting. But then, you know, the papers going for the top journals are usually ones where you you know, existing methods can kind of solve you know eighty percent of the problem, but then there is this twenty percent which is resistant, and and new techniques to be invented to to fill in the gaps. It's it's very very rare now that a problem gets solved with so no reliance on past literature, where all the ideas come out of of of nowhere. You know that was more common in the past, but mathematics is so true now that it's it's it's somewhat handicapped to to to to not use literature. So, AI tools are really good at getting really good at the first part of that, trying all the standard things on a problem. Often now, actually making fewer mistakes in finding them than than humans. They still make mistakes, but I've tested these tools, you know, on on on like little tasks that I can do, and sometimes they pick errors I make, sometimes they pick errors that they make. It's about a tie right now. But yeah, I haven't yet seen them take the next step. You know, so so when there are holes in in the argument where none of the things are working, to to how then what do you do? And then they can kind of suggest random things, and but it it often I find that trying to chase them down and make them work and find they don't work it wastes more time than it saves. Yeah. So, now, so I think some fraction of problems that we couldn't think of hard will will
Just blew all the others off the search of the water, like you just getting relevant hits on the front page, like perfectly, almost exactly what you wanted, and it was amazing. And then after a few years, we just discovered that that you could you could just Google anything, and yeah, so a lot of yeah, I mean, twenty twenty six AI was starting in twenty twenty one, and a lot of it, you know, face recognition, natural speech, yeah, doing you know, college math problems, we just discovered it. Right. Yeah. Okay. So speaking of twenty twenty six, yeah, you made predictions twenty twenty three. I think by twenty twenty six, what was it? It would be like like college mathematics, or yeah, I trust with the core if used correctly. Yeah, looking pretty good, interesting, right? Yeah, I'm I'm pretty pleased. Yeah. So you know, let's see if we can continue this streak. You personally are two x more productive as a result of AI. Why would you say that? Yes, productivity. I think is not quite a one-dimensional quantity. I'm definitely noticing that the style in which I do mathematics is changing quite a bit. The type of things I do. So, for example, my papers now have a lot more code, a lot more pictures. Um, um, um, I because it's so easy to generate these things now. So some plot would have taken me hours to do now, I can now do in minutes. But in the past, I just would have put the plot in my paper. The first page, I would just talk about in words. So it's hard to measure what two x means. So, yeah, on the one hand, you know, I think the type of papers that I would write today, if I had to do them without AI assistance, they would definitely take five times longer. Interesting. But I would not write my papers that way. Five x. So yeah, but but it's it's because but these are sort of auxiliary. I mean, you know the you know sort of things, yeah, things like um, doing a much deeper literature search, um, supplying a lot more new words. Yeah. I mean, they they they enrich the paper. So, yeah, the the core of what I do, like actually solving the more difficult part of of my problem, that hasn't changed much. To read a paper for that, but
This building up cumulatively from from partial progress is kind of is still not quite there yet. You're saying if we generate a new algorithm for point five or whatever, solve the problem? Yeah, it is not the case that it's understanding of math that's first, or even if it works on a problem without solving it, it's not that it's understanding of yeah. It's progress. Yeah, you want a new sessionist forgotten what what just did? Right, it has you know it has no new skills to attach to to to build on on related problems. Maybe what you just did is part of one point zero one percent of the training data for the next generation. So maybe eventually some of it gets absorbed. Yeah. One big question I have is how plausible is it that if we just keep training AI to get better and better at you know solving problems, and that they will continue to solve more and more impressive problems, and then we will in retrospect be surprised at how little insight. Be got from some lean solutions to proving the remaining problems or something? Or do you think it is a necessary condition of solving the remaining problems, even by an AI, that like totally differently that the constructions are made, the definitions are created, even in the lean program. Have to advance our understanding of mathematics, or do you think it could just be a simply Google Google? Yeah, we don't know. I mean, some problems have been basically solved by brute force. Four color theorem is a famous example. We have still not found a conceptual elegant proof of this theorem. It basically and and maybe we never will. I mean, some problems may only be solved by just splitting into enormous number of cases and and doing brute force and insightful computer analysis on on each case. I mean, part of the reason we we prize problems like we know hypothesis that we're pretty sure that that something amazing has to a new type of mathematics has to be created, or a new connection between two previous and connected areas of mathematics has to be discovered to to make this work. We don't even know what the shape of the solution is, but it doesn't feel like a problem will be solved just by exhaustively checking cases or something. I mean, it could be forced actually. So we could actually there is an unlikely scenario that that the hypothesis falls and this is this this using a computer uses you offline and massive computer calculation verifies it. That would be very disappointing. I don't. I I I do feel
And being really precise, you know, you can, you can, you can, you know, there's individual steps, and they're really precise. I think in the future there'll be, you know, there'll be entire professions of mathematicians about taking giant, long general proof and maybe doing some ablation or something, and try to remove parts of it, and try to find find more elegant ways. You know, maybe it's my AI's doing some reinforcement learning. How can you make the proof more elegant? And and maybe other AI's will grade whether this this proof looks good or not. One thing that will change quite a bit in the near future is is that, until recently, writing papers was the most time consuming and expensive part of of the job. And so you did it very rarely. You know, you you only wrote your sort of once if it was all the other parts of the argument were worked out, and things could just rewriting it again, refactoring it's a total pain. But that's one thing that's become a lot easier now with more tools. So you don't have to just one version of of a paper. You you know, you can once you have one, you know, people can generate hundreds more. So yeah, one giant messy proof may not be very meaningful or understandable, but but other people can can refactor it and do hundreds of of of things with it. We have seen with the old problem where you know the people will will and AI will generate a proof and then he will proof thousands of code that that verifies the proof, but then we people got other AI's to summarize the proof and and people write their own proofs. It's actually post processing once you actually have one proof. We actually have a lot of tools now to to deconstruct it and interpret it. It's a very nascent area of of of science or mathematics, but I'm not as worried about you know so so some people are concerned. You want if the reanalysis proof is completely incomprehensible proof. I think once you have the artifact of a proof, we can do a lot of of of analysis on it. You post recently that it would be helpful to have a formalism, a formal language for mathematical strategies as opposed to just mathematical proofs, which is what we've been doing. I would love to learn more about what that would look like. We don't really know. I mean, we've been very lucky in mathematics that that we have worked
Try to create automated conjectures, and and and and maybe the way to benchmark these and get some some way to simulate this, but this is still very, very new science. Can Can you help me get some intuition for? I have two set questions. One, it would be very helpful to have a tangible sense of. It would be helpful to have a specific example of what something like this would look like. That the way scientists communicate that we can't formalize yet, and two, it seems almost definitionally paradoxical to say building up some narrative or building up some natural language explanation, and then also having something which you could have formalized, and I am sure there is some intuition behind where that overlaps, and I'd love to understand that better. So, so an example of of conjecture. So, Gauss was interested in prime numbers, and he computed he created one of the first mathematical sets. He just computed the first hundred thousand prime numbers, so hoping to find patterns. And he did find a pattern, but maybe not not the pattern you expected. He found a statistical pattern in the primes that if you count how many primes there are up to one hundred thousand, one million, so forth, they get sparse and sparse, but the the the the drop off in in the density was inversely proportional to the natural log of of of of of the prime numbers. So he conjectured we know now the prime number theorem: the number of primes up to x is x divided by the natural log of x. And he had no way to prove this. It was It was data driven, so this this was a conjecture. It was revolutionary for its time because it was maybe the first really important conjecture of of statistical nature. So normally, you would talk about patterns like maybe the spacing between the primes has a certain regularity or something, but yeah, but this was really something which it didn't tell you exactly how many primes there were in any given range; it just gave you an approximation that got better and better as you went further out. But it it helped, so it it started the field of analytic number theory. But it was the first in many conjectures like this, many which were proved, which sort of started consolidating the idea that the prime numbers actually didn't really have a pattern; they behave like random random set of numbers with a certain density. I mean, they had some patterns like they they almost all are, but there is some this and they're not
Time we've been able to make theoretical was always a line, you know. It is possible that the consensus is wrong, and and we all just miss something very basic. You know, there have been paradigm shifts in the past in scientific history. Yeah, but we we don't really have a way of measuring this. I think partly because we don't have enough data on on how math and science develop. We we have one timeline history, and you know we we have like you know hundred stories of turning points in history. If if we had access to a million alien civilizations and each of the different development of of history and of science and different orders, then maybe we we actually have have have a decent charted understanding of how do we measure what is progress and and what is a good strategy, and we could maybe start formalizing it and and having a framework. Maybe if what we need to do is start creating lots of mini universes, simulations of AI solving very basic problems, you know, in arithmetic or whatever, but but coming up with the own strategies for doing these things and and and having these little laboratories to test. I mean, the people who who invest in like what's the smallest you know neural network that can do ten digit multiplication and things like that. I think I think we could learn a lot just from evolving small AIs on on on simple problems. You have to learn about new fields not only very rapidly but deeply enough to reach to the frontier. So in some sense, you're also one of the world's greatest arithmatics. How does what is your process of learning about new stuff? You learn math. What does that look like? Yeah, so I I identify with kind of the yeah we talked about this before, and it's not purely human AI distinction. I mean, humans also so I think it was proving who's the hedgehog and foxes, and the hedgehog knows one thing very well, and fox knows a little bit about everything. So I definitely I don't you know I I think myself as a fox, you know I I work hedgehogs a lot, and sometimes I can be hedgehog if need be. Yeah, so I've always had a little bit of obsessive streak. If if something which I read about which I feel I should understand, I I have the capability to understand this, but I don't understand why works. There's some magic in that, you know. So someone was able to use it, type of
So how do you use your time versus what it does now? This podcast wouldn't be half. Yeah, as much as I complain about certain tasks that I don't want to do, but I have to do. So as as you get more senior in in academia, you get more responsibility and get some more committees and and whatever. But I have also found that a lot of events that I kind of reluctantly went to because I was obliged to for one reason or another, because there is often something unknown. I often find interactions with people I wouldn't normally talk to. I get like new friends, and I would learn interesting things and have interesting experiences, and I would have opportunities to to to to then network with other people that I would never have done before. So I do believe a lot in serendipity. I mean, I do optimize my time, and when I so there is some portions of my day where I do schedule it carefully, but I have been willing to leave some some portions as okay, I am going to do something which is which is not my usual thing, and maybe it'll be a waste of my time, but maybe I'll learn something, and and more often than not, it's I've I feel like I've gotten a positive experience, which is not something I would have planned for. And yeah, so I believe a lot in serendipity, and maybe there is a danger actually that you know in the modern side, it's not just AI, but we become really good at optimizing everything, and and and maybe we're optimizing we're not optimizing on the optimization that you know with with COVID, for example, we we switch like we switch a lot to meetings, and so everything was scheduled now, and so we kept busy. And in academia, you know, we we met almost the same old people that we met in person, but everything had to be planned. You know, you schedule things in advance, and what we lost out on was sort of the the casual, you know, knocking on the hallway, just meeting someone, you know, walking to coffee, and there is there is there is yeah, serendipitous interactions that you may think are not optimal, but actually are really important. You know, when I was a graduate, I would go down to the library to look. I had to look for a journal article. I had to physically go to the library, check out the journal, and read the article. And sometimes
People needed, physicists needed some exact solution to to to to to some system, and they were just they hired mathematicians to laboriously work the calculus and work out the solution to the fluid equation, whatever. A lot of what 19th century mathematicians would do, you could make a call to Mathematica or Wolfram Alpha or a computer algebra package. More now, more recent AI and it would just solve the problem, you know, in a few minutes. But we we moved on. We we we worked on different types of problems after that. You know, once computers came along, you know, computers used to be human. People used to laboriously create log tables and and and and work out problems like this, and that is all being solved with computers. But but we moved on. In genetics, you know, to to to sequence the the genome of a single organism, that was an entire PhD of analysis. You know, so carefully, you know, separating all the chromosomes and and whatever. And now you can just spend a thousand dollars and send it to sequence and and get it done. But genetics is not that subject. You you move to different scale. Maybe we study whole ecosystems rather than individuals. I take your point, but on the question of well, when is most mathematical progress, almost all mathematical progress, happening by AI? So if you find out oh, this year a million million problems problem has been solved, you would put you know, and 95 percent odds that any AI did it autonomously. Surely they're always such a year. I guess I mean I I I do believe that that hybrid human plus AI will will dominate mathematics for a lot longer. It it it will depend. It will require some additional breakthroughs beyond what we have. So it's it's going to be so casted. You know, I think you know AI is currently very good at certain things, but but really terrible others. And and why can't we add more and more frameworks on top to kind of reduce errors and and and make them work with each other a bit more and so forth? I I it feels like we we don't have all the ingredients to like really achieve satisfaction of replacement for all intellectual tasks. It it is complementary. It's not not it it is not replacement. But maybe I mean because current AI is worth accelerating science in so many ways. Hopefully, you know, we new discoveries, new breakthroughs will happen more more quickly. I mean
In science and so forth, the old-fashioned way for a while, but yeah, but you should also be open to to very, very different ways of of doing science, some of which don't exist yet. Yeah, so it's it's it's a scary time, but also very exciting. Yeah, awesome. That's a great note to close on. Thanks. Thanks so much. Yeah, pleasure.
