Joe, Joe, experience. Try my day, Joe. Try my day, all day. Joe, is he again? We're just talking about was that the first time we ever spoke, or was the first time we spoke at SpaceX? SpaceX, SpaceX, first time. When you were giving Elon that crazy AI chip, right? Did you expect? Yeah. Ooh, that was a big moment. That was huge. I felt crazy to be there. I was like watching these wizards of tech like exchange information, and you're giving him this crazy device, you know. And then the other time was I was shooting arrows in my backyard, and randomly get this call from Trump. He's hanging out with you, President Trump. Called and I called you. Yeah, it's just we were talking about you. We were talking about you. He was talking about U.S. You see, he was going to do in his front yard. Yeah, and he pulls out. He's Jensen. Look at this design. He's so proud of it. And you're going to have a fight in the front lawn in the White House. He goes, Yeah, yeah. You're going to come. This is going to be awesome. And he's showing his design, how beautiful it is. And he goes, and somehow your name comes up. He goes, Do you know Joe? I said, Yeah, I'm going to be on his podcast. He said, Let's call him. He's like a kid. I know. Let's call. It's he's like a childish little kid. He's incredible. Yeah, he's an odd guy. Just very different, you know, like what you expect from him, very different than what people think of him, and also just very different as president. I would just call you a text out of the blue. Also, he makes when he he texts you, you have an Android, so it won't go through with you. But with my iPhone, he makes the text go big. Like you say, he's respected again. Like, all caps and make the the the text in large is kind of ridiculous. Well, the the one one Trump, President Trump, is very different. He's surprised me. First of all, he's an incredibly good listener. Almost everything I ever said to him, he's remembered. Yeah, people don't. They only want to look at negative stories about him or negative narratives about
Some concern. They're always available. Problem. It's just unfortunate we live in such a politically polarized society that you can't recognize good comments and things if they're coming from a person you object to, and that I think is what's going on here. I think most people, generally, as a country, you know, as a giant community which we are, it just only makes sense that we have manufacturing in America. That especially critical technology, like you are talking about, like it's kind of insane that we buy so much technology from other countries. If United States doesn't grow, we will have no prosperity. We can't invest in anything domestically, or otherwise, we can't fix any of our problems. If we don't have energy growth, we can't have industrial growth. If we don't have industrial growth, we can't have job growth. These it's as simple as that, right? And the fact that the fact that he came into office and the first thing that he said was "grow, be grow." His point is we need energy growth. Without energy growth, we can have no industrial growth, and that was it saved it saved the AI industry. I got to tell you flat out, if not for his pro-growth energy policy, we would not be able to build factories for AI, not be able to build chip factories, surely won't be able to build supercomputer factories. None of that stuff would be possible without all of that. Construction jobs would be challenged, right? Electrical, you know, electrician jobs. All of these jobs are now flourishing. We'd be challenged, and so I think he's got it right. We need energy growth. We want to re-industrialize the United States. We need to be back in manufacturing. Every successful person doesn't need to have a PhD. Every successful person doesn't have to understand for an M. I. T. , and I think I think that that that you know that sensibility is is spot on. Now, when we're talking about technology growth and energy growth, there's a lot of people that go, "Oh, no, that's not what we need. We need to you know simplify our lives and get back." But the the real issue is that we're in the middle of a giant technology race, and whether people are aware or not, whether they like it or not, it's happening, and it's a really important race because whoever gets to whatever the
You're the head of Nvidia. Yeah. You don't know. Yeah. What's there? Who does? Yeah. I I think it's probably going to be much more gradual than we think. It won't be a moment. It won't be. It won't be as if somebody arrived and nobody else has. I don't think it's going to be like that. I think it's going to be things that just get better and better and better, better, just like technology. So you are rosy about the future. You're you're very optimistic about what's going to happen with AI. Obviously, when you make the best AI chips in the world, it probably better be. If history is a guide, we were always concerned about new technology. Humanity has always been concerned about new technology. There always somebody who's thinking. There always a lot of people who are quite concerned. Who are quite concerned. And and and so if if history is a guide, it is the case that all of this concern is channeled into making the technology safer. And so, for example, in the last several years, I would say AI technology has increased probably in the last two years alone maybe a hundred x. Let's just give it a number. Okay. It's like a car. Two years ago, was a hundred times slower. So AI is a hundred times more capable today. Now, how do we channel that technology? How do we channel all of that power? We directed it to causing the AI to be able to think, meaning that it can take a problem that we give it, break it down step by step. It does research before answers, and so grounds it on truth. It'll reflect on that answer as itself as the best, you know, answer that I can give you. Am I certain about this answer? If it's not certain about the answer, highly confident about the answer, it'll go back and do more research. It might actually even use a tool because that tool provides a better solution than it could hallucinate itself. As a result, we took all of that computing capability and we channeled it to having it produce a safer result, safer answer, a more truthful answer. Because as you know, one of the greatest criticisms of AI to begin with is that hallucination, right? And so, if you look at the reason why people use AI so much today, it's because the amount of hallucination has reduced. You know,
Often times, definition definition of power is military power, physical power, but in in the case of technology power, when we translate all of the operations, it's towards more reflective thinking, you know, more reflection, more planning, more options. I think the big fear is people have is one a big fear is military application. Yeah, that's a big fear. Yeah, because people are very concerned that you are going to have AI systems that make decisions that maybe an ethical person wouldn't make or a moral person wouldn't make based on achieving an objective versus based on you know how it's going to look to people. Well, I'm I'm happy that that our military is going to use AI technology for defense, and I think that that and building military technology. I'm happy to hear that. I'm happy to see all these tech startups now channeling their technology capabilities towards defense and military applications. I think you need to do that. Yeah, we have Palmer Luckey on the podcast. He was demonstrating something incredible. Yeah, incredible. And we we showed some videos. How you could see behind walls and stuff. It's nuts. He's he's actually the perfect guy to go start that company. One hundred percent. One hundred percent. Thank you, Warren, for that. Yeah, he came here with a copper jacket on. He's a freak. He's awesome. But it's also it's a you know unusual intellect channel into that very bizarre field is what you need. And I think it's it's I think I'm happy that we're making it so more socially acceptable. You know, there was a time where when somebody wanted to channel their technology capability and their intellect into defense technology, somehow they vilified. But we need people like that. We need people who enjoy enjoy that part of a application of technology. Well, people are terrified of war. Yeah, so the best best way to avoid it is excessive military might. Do you think that's absolutely the best way? Not not diplomacy, not working stuff out. All of it. All of it. Yeah, you have to have military might. Yeah, to get people to sit down. Right, exactly. All of it. Otherwise, just invade. That's right. I ask for permission again. Like you said, history. Go back and look at history. When you look at the future of AI, and you just said that no one really knows what's happening. You ever sit down and ponder
That ever being an issue, or do you think it's as the defense grows, the threat grows, the defense grows, and just keeps going on and on and on, and they'll always be able to fight off any sort of intrusions. Not forever. Some intrusion will get in, and they'll all learn from it. And you know the reason why cybersecurity works is because of course the technology of defense is advancing very quickly. The technology of offense is advancing very quickly. However, the benefit of the cybersecurity defense is that socially, the community, all of our companies work together as one. Most people don't realize there's a whole community of cybersecurity experts. We exchange ideas. We exchange best practices. We exchange what we detect the moment something has been breached, or maybe there's a loophole, whatever it is. It is shared by everybody. The patches are shared with everybody. That's interesting. Yeah, most people don't realize. No, no, I know the idea. Assume that it would just be competitive. No, no, we work together. Interesting. Has that always been the case? I it surely has been the case for about about 15 years. It might not have been the case long ago, but this. What do you think started off that cooperation? People realizing it's a challenge, no company can stand alone, and the same thing is going to happen with AI. I think we all have to decide, work working together, to stay out of harm's way is is our best chance of defense. Then it's basically everybody against the threat, and it also seems like you'd be way better at detecting where these threats are coming from and neutralizing them. Exactly, because the moment you detect that somewhere, right, you're going to find out right away. It'll be really hard to hide. That's right. Yeah. That's how it works. That's the reason why it's safe. That's why I'm sitting here right now instead of you know locking everything down. It's not only am I watching my back. I've got everybody watching my back, and I'm watching everybody else's back. It's a bizarre world, isn't it? When you think about that cybersecurity idea about cybersecurity is unknown to the people who are talking about AI threats. There, I think when they think about AI threats and AI cybersecurity threats, they have to also think about how we deal with it today. Now, there's no question that AI is a
So when, when that whatever that AI threat comes, it's a clickhead. It's not a galaxy head. You know, it's just a clickhead. And so, so I think I think the, the, the idea that somehow this AI, is going to pop out of nowhere, and somehow think in a way that we can't even imagine thinking, and do something that we can't possibly imagine, I think is far fetched. And the reason for that is because we all have we all have AI and, you know, there's a whole bunch of AI's being developed. We know what they are and we're using it. And so every single day we're getting we're close to each other, but don't they do things that are very surprising? Yeah, but so you you have an AI that does something surprising. I'm going to have an AI. Right, my AI looks at your AI goes. That's not that surprising. The fear for the layperson myself is that AI becomes sentient and makes its own decisions, and then ultimately decides to just, govern the world, do its own way. Thank you guys. You had a good run, but we're taking over now. Yeah, but my my AI is going to take care of me. So that's this this cybersecurity argument. Yes, you have an AI and it's super smart, but my AI is super super smart too, and and maybe your AI, let's pretend let's let's pretend for a second that we understand what consciousness is and we understand what sentience is and and that we really are just pretending. Okay, let's just pretend for a second. Yeah, we we believe that. I don't believe that. I actually don't believe that, but nonetheless, we let's pretend we believe that. So your your your AI is conscious. My AI is conscious, and let's say your AI is, you know, wants to I don't know do something surprising. My AI is so smart that it won't. It might be surprising to me, but it probably won't be surprising to my AI, and so maybe my AI, thinks surprising as well, but it's so smart. The moment it sees it the first time, it's not going to be surprised the second time. Just like us, so I feel like, I think the idea that that only one person has AI and that one person's AI is, compares everybody else's AI is the end of all, is
Yeah, but you guys are working towards it. The the thing about you're saying about conscience and sentience that you don't think that AI will achieve consciousness. Or the question is what's the definition? What's the definition? What is the definition to you? Um, uh, consciousness. Um, for I guess first of all, you need to know by your own existence. Um, you have to have experience, not just knowledge and intelligence. The concept of a machine having an experience. Um. Well, first of all, I don't know what defines experience. Why we have experiences, right? Yeah, and why the microphone doesn't. And so, I think I know. I think I. I think I. Know what consciousness is. The sense of experience, the ability to know self versus, versus um. The ability to be able to reflect, know our own self. The sense of ego. I think all of all of those human experiences, uh, probably is what consciousness is. But why exists versus the concept of knowledge and intelligence, which is what AI is defined by today. It has knowledge. It has intelligence. Artificial intelligence. We don't call it artificial consciousness. Artificial intelligence: the ability to perceive, recognize, understand, um, plan, perform tasks. Those things are foundations of intelligence. To know things, knowledge. I don't. It's clearly different than consciousness. But consciousness is so loosely defined. How can we say that? I mean, doesn't a dog have consciousness? Yeah, dogs seem to be pretty conscious. That's right. Yeah. So and that's a lower level consciousness than a human being's consciousness. I'm not sure. Yeah. Right. Well, the question is what lower level intelligence? Yeah. It's lower level intelligence. Yeah. But I don't know. That's lower level consciousness. That's a good point. Yeah. Right. Because I believe my dogs feel as much as I feel. Yeah, they feel a lot. Yeah. Right. Yeah, they get attached to you. That's right. They get depressed if you're not there. That's right. Exactly. There's there's definitely that. Yeah. Um, the the concept of experience. Right. Um, but isn't AI interacting with society? So doesn't it acquire experience through that interaction? Yeah, I don't think interaction is experience. I think experience is experience is a collection of feelings. I think. You're aware that AI
Mentioned space, these words, that word in the prompt that describe the affair, subsequently led to one word after another led to you know some revenge and something, but it's not because it had consciousness, or you know, it just be those words generated those words. I understand what you're saying. Yeah, that's learned from patterns that humans exhibited both in literature and in real life. That's exactly right. But at a certain point in time, one would say, "Okay, we couldn't do this two years ago, and we couldn't do this four years ago." Well, when we're looking towards the future, like at what point in time it can do everything a person does? What point in time do we decide that it's conscious? If it absolutely mimics all human thinking and behavior patterns, that doesn't make it because indiscernible. It's it's aware, can communicate with you the exact same way a person can. Like is is consciousness? Are we putting too much weight on that concept? Because it seems like it's a version of a kind of consciousness. It's a version, imitation, imitation consciousness, right? But perfectly imitates. I still think it's a it's an example of imitation. So it's like a fake Rolex when they three D print them and make them indiscernible. The question is, what's the definition of consciousness? Yeah, yeah, that's the question, and I don't think anybody's really clearly defined that. That's where it gets weird, and that's where the real doomsday people worry. That you are creating a form of consciousness that you can't control. I believe it is possible to create a machine that imitates human intelligence and has the ability to understand information, understand instructions, break the problem down, solve problems, and perform tasks. I believe that completely. I believe that that we could have a computer that has a vast amount of knowledge, some of it true, some of it not true, some of it generated by humans, some of it generated synthetically, and more and more of knowledge in the world will be generated synthetically going forward. You know, until now, the knowledge that we we have are knowledge that we generate and we propagate and we send to each other and we amplify it and we add to it and we modify it, we change it. In the future, in a couple of years, maybe two or three years, ninety percent of the world's
How they think of themselves and how they fit in the community is what they do. Like this is Mike. He's an amazing mechanic. Go to Mike and Mike takes care of things. But there's going to come a point in time where AI is going to be able to do all those things much better than than people do, and people will just be able to receive money. But then what does Mike do? And Mike is, you know, really loves being the best mechanic around. You know what does the guy who you know codes? What does he do when AI can code infinitely faster with zero errors? Like what what happens with all those people? That is where it gets weird because we've sort of wrapped our identity as human beings around what we do for a living. You know when you meet someone, one of the first things you meet somebody at a party, Hi Joe, what's your name? Mike, what do you do, Mike? And you know Mike's like, Oh, I'm a lawyer. Oh, what kind of law? And you have a conversation. You know when Mike is like, I get money from the government. I play video games. Gets weird. And I think the concept sounds great until you take into account human nature, and human nature is that we like to have puzzles to solve and things to do, and and identity is wrapped around our idea that we're very good at the things that we do for a living. Yeah, I think let's see. Let me start with the more mundane. Okay, no work work back. Okay, work forward. So one of the predictions from Geoffrey Hinton, who who started the whole deep learning phenomenon, deep learning technology trend, and incredible incredible researcher, professor at University Toronto, he invented discovered or invented the idea of of back propagation, which which allows the neural network to learn. And and as as you know for for the audience, software historically was humans applying first principles and our thinking to describe an algorithm that is then codified, just like a recipe that's codified in software. It looks just like a recipe. How to cook something. Looks exactly the same. Just slightly different language. We call it Python or C or C plus plus or whatever it is. In the case of deep learning, the invention of artificial intelligence, we put a structure of a whole bunch of neural networks and a whole bunch of math units, and we make this large structure. It's like a switchboard of little mathematical units
I'm up with a bunch of garbage, and you say no, no, no. The answer is this is a dog. I want you to produce dog, and all the other switch, all the other outputs have to be zero, and I want to back propagate that, and just do it over and over and over again. It's just like showing a kid this is an apple, this is a dog, this is a cat, and you keep showing it until they eventually get. Okay, one of the ways that big invention is deep learning, that's the foundation of artificial intelligence, a piece of software that learns from examples. That's basically we machine learning a machine that learns, and so so one of the the big first applications was image recognition, and one of the most important image recognition applications is radiology. And so, so he predicted about five years ago that in five years' time the world won't need any radiologists because AI would have swept the whole field. Well, turns out AI has swept the whole field. That is completely true. Today, just about every radiologist is using AI in some way, and what's ironic though, what's interesting is that the number of radiologists has actually grown. And so the question is why? That's kind of interesting, right? It is. And so the prediction was in fact that 30 million radiologists will be wiped out, but as it turns out, we need more, and the reason for that is because the purpose of a radiologist is to diagnose disease, not to study the image. The image studying is simply a task to in service of diagnosing disease, and so now the fact that you could study the images more quickly and more precisely. Without ever making a mistake and never getting tired, you could study more images. You could study in 3D, 4D instead of 2D, because you know the AI doesn't care whether it studies images in 3D or 2D. You could study in 4D, and so now you could study images in a way that radiologists radiologists can't easily do, and you could study a lot more of it. And so the number of tests that people are able to do increases, and because they're able to serve more patients, the hospital does better. They have more clients, more patients. As a result, they have better economics. When they have better economics, they hire more radiologists because their purpose is not to study
There's a whole new industry of technicians and people have to manufacture the robots, right? Mm-hmm. And so that that job never existed, and so you're going to have a whole industry of people taking care of, like for example, you know, all the mechanics and all the people who are building things for cars, supercharging cars. That didn't exist before cars, and now we're going to have robots. You're going to have robot apparels. So a whole industry, right? Isn't that right? Because I want my robot to look different than your robot. Okay. So you're going to you're going to have a whole, you know, a parallel industry for robots. You're going to have mechanics for robots, and you have, you know, people kind of maintaining robots. Though. Nah, you don't think so? You don't think that not all buying all the robots eventually, and then there'll be something else. So you think ultimately people just adapt, except if you are the task, which is a large percentage of the workforce. If your job is just to chop vegetables, Cuisinart's going to replace you. Yeah. So people have to find meaning in other things. Your job has to be more than the task. What do you think about Elon's belief that this universal basic income thing will eventually become necessary? Many people think that Andrew Yang. Yeah. That's a quote. He was one of the first people to sort of sound that alarm during the the twenty twenty election. Yeah, I I guess um, you have both ideas probably won't exist at the same time, and and as in life, things will probably be in the middle. One idea, of course, is that there'll be so much abundance of resources that nobody needs a job, and we'll all be wealthy. On the other hand, we're going to need universal basic income. Both ideas don't exist at the same time, right? And so we're either going to be all wealthy, or we're going to be all. How can everybody be wealthy though? Well, because scenario wealthy, not because you have a lot of dollars. Wealthy because there's a lot of abundance. Like for example, today we are wealthy of information. You know, this is a concept several thousand years ago. Only a few people have, and so today we have wealth of a whole bunch of things, resources that that historical. Yeah. Yeah. So we
That have a vast amount of resources because AI takes energy, and AI takes a lot of GPUs and factories to be able to produce the AI. No doubt at the scale that we would like to do in United States, but the fact of the matter is, your phone's going to run AI just fine, all by itself. You know, in a few years, today it already does fairly decently, and so the the fact that every country, every nation, every every society will have the benefit of very good AI. It might not be tomorrow's AI, it might be yesterday's AI, but yesterday's AI is freaking amazing. You know, in ten years' time, nine-year-old AI is going to be amazing. You don't need a you know ten-year-old AI, you don't need frontier AI like we need frontier AI because we want to be the world leader, but for every single country, everybody, I think the level the the capability, level of everybody's knowledge and capability and intelligence, that day is coming. The Octagon isn't just in Las Vegas anymore. It's right in your hands with DraftKings Sportsbook, the official sports betting partner of UFC. Get ready because when Dwyer's Willie and Jan face off again at UFC 323, every punch, every takedown, every finish, it all has the potential to pay off in real time. New customers bet just five dollars, and if your bet wins, you get paid two hundred dollars in bonus bets. And hey, Missouri, the wait is over. DraftKings Sportsbook is now live in the show me state. Download the DraftKings Sportsbook app and use promo code ROGAN. That's code ROGAN to turn five bucks into two hundred in bonus bets if your bet wins. In partnership with DraftKings, the crown is yours. Gambling problem? Call one eight hundred Gambler in New York. Call eight seven seven eight open wired tax open wired four six seven three six nine. Any Connecticut help is available for problem gambling. Call eight eight eight seven nine seven seven seven seven. Please play responsibly. On behalf of Boot Hill Casino Resort in Kansas, pass through a per wager tax may apply in Illinois. Twenty one and over age eligibility varies by jurisdiction. Void in Ontario. Restrictions apply. Bet must win to receive bonus bets. Subject to seven days minimum odds required. Forty additional terms and responsible gaming resources: ZDNG dot co slash audio. Limited time offer. And
What I mean, what I'm trying to say is that in 10 years' time, the amount of energy necessary for artificial intelligence for most people will be minuscule, utterly minuscule, and so we'll have AI running in all kinds of things and all the time because it doesn't consume that much energy. And so, if you're a nation that uses AI for, you know, almost everything in your social fabric, of course you're going to need these AI factories. But for a lot of countries, I think you're going you're going to have excellent AI, and you're not going to need as much energy. Everybody will be able to come along. Is my point. So currently, that is the big bottleneck, right? Is energy. Yeah, it is the bottleneck. The bottleneck. Yeah. Is this so? Was it Google that is making nuclear power plants to operate one of its AI factories? I haven't heard that, but I think in the next six seven years, I think you're going to see a whole bunch of small nuclear reactors. And by small, how big you talking about? Hundreds of megawatts. Yeah. Okay. And these will be local to that specific company. They have that's right. We'll all be power generators. Whoa. You know, just like just like you know somebody's farm. It's probably the smartest way to do it, right? And takes the burden off. Yeah, takes the burden off the grid. It takes. Yeah. And you could build as much as you need. And you can contribute back to the grid. It's a really important point that I think you just made about Moore's law and the relationship to pricing, because you know a laptop today, you can get one of those little Mac MacBook Airs, they're incredible, they're just incredible, unbelievably powerful battery. You ever have to charge it? Yeah, it's crazy. And it's not that expensive, relatively speaking. Something like that. I remember that. That's just Moore's law, right? Then there's the Nvidia law. Oh. Just right. The the law I was talking to you about, the computing that we invented, right? The reason why we're here, this new this new way of doing computing, is like Moore's law on energy drink. I mean, it's it's like Moore's law. It's like yeah, Moore's law and Joe Rogan. Wow
And so, our way of doing computation is much more complicated. But if you're able to formulate the problem in the way that we created CUDA, this is the invention of our company. If you could formulate it in that way, we could process everything simultaneously. Now, in the case of computer graphics, it's easier to do because every single pixel on your screen is not related to every other pixel, and so I could render multiple parts of the screen at the same time. Not, not completely true because you know maybe maybe the way lighting works or the way shadow works there's a lot of dependency and such. But computer graphics with all the with all the pixels, I should be able to process everything simultaneously. And so we we took this embarrassingly parallel problem called computer graphics, and we applied it to this new way of doing computing, NVIDIA's NVIDIA accelerated computing. We put it in all of our graphics cards. Kids were buying to play games. Where you probably don't know this, but what the largest gaming platform in the world today? Oh, I know that. Okay, I used to make my own computers. I used to buy your graphics card. Oh, that's super cool. Yeah, okay, Sli. Oh, yeah, I love it. Okay, that's super cool. Oh, yeah, man, I used to be a great junkie. Oh, that's cool. Yeah. Okay, so Sli. I'll tell you the story in just a second, and how I led the line. I'm going to still answering the question. And so, anyway, these these two kids trained this model using the technique I described earlier on our GPUs because our GPUs could process things in parallel. It's essentially a supercomputer in a PC. The reason why you use it for quick is because it is the first consumer supercomputer, okay? And so, anyway, they made that breakthrough. We were working on computer vision at the time, acomputation, and so we went to learn about it. Simultaneously, this deep learning phenomenon was happening all over all over the country, universities after another, recognizing the importance of deep learning, and all of this work was happening at Stanford, at Harvard, Berkeley, just all over the place. New York University, Langton, you know Yang Kun, Andrew Yang, and Stanford—so many different places—and I see it cropping up everywhere. And so, my curiosity asked, you know, what is so special about
The world has input and output, and so we could have a computer that could learn almost anything—machine learning, artificial intelligence. And so we reasoned that maybe this is the fundamental breakthrough that we needed. There were a couple of things that had to be solved. For example, we had to believe that you could actually scale this up to giant systems. It was running, and they had two graphics cards, two GTX 580s, which by the way is exactly your SLI configuration. Yeah. Okay. So that GTX 580 SLI was the revolutionary computer that put deep learning on the map. Wow. It was 2018, and you were using it to play Quake. Wow, that's crazy. That was the moment. That was the big bang of modern AI. We were lucky because we were inventing this technology, this computing approach. We were lucky that they found it. Turns out they were gamers, and it was lucky they found it, and it was lucky that we paid attention to that moment. It was a little bit like, you know, that Star Trek, you know, first contact. The Vulcans had to have seen the warp drive at that very moment. If they didn't witness the warp drive, you know, they would have never come to Earth, and everything would have never happened. It's a little bit like if I had paid attention to that moment, that flash, and that flash didn't last long. If I had paid attention to that flash, or our company didn't pay attention to it, who knows what would happen? But we saw that, and we reasoned our way into this is a this is a universal function approximator. This is not just a computer vision approximator. We could use this for all kinds of things if we could solve two problems. The first problem is that we have to prove ourself it could scale. The second problem we had to wait for years, contribute to, and wait for is the world will never have enough data on input and output where we could supervise the AI to learn everything. For example, we have to supervise our children on everything they learn. The amount of information they can learn is limited. We needed the AI. We needed the computer to have a method of learning without supervision, and that's where we had to wait a few more years. But unsupervised AI learning is now here, and so the AI could learn by itself. And and the reason why
And I described this deep learning thing, computer vision thing, and this computer called DJX One. The audience was like completely silent. They had no idea what I was talking about. And I was lucky because I, I know Elon, and I helped him build the first computer for Model Three, the Model S, and and when he wanted to start working on autonomous vehicle, I helped him build the computer that went into the the Model S AV system, his full full self driving system. We were basically the FSD computer version one, and so we were already working together. And when I announced this thing, nobody in the world wanted it. I had no purchase orders, not not one. Nobody wanted to buy it. Nobody wanted to be part of it, except for Elon. He goes, he was at the event, and we were doing a fireside chat about the future of self driving cars. I think it's like twenty sixteen. Yeah, twenty. At that time, was twenty fifteen. And he goes, you know what? I have a company that could really use us. Wow, my first customer. And so, so I was pretty excited about it. And he goes, "Yeah, we have this company. It's a non profit company. " And all the blood drained out of my face. Yeah, I just spent a few billion dollars building this thing. Cost three hundred thousand dollars, and you know the chances of a non profit being able to pay for this thing is probably zero. And he goes, you know, this is an AI company, and it's a non profit, and and we could really use one of these super computers. And so I, I picked it up. I built the first one. First of all, we're using inside the company. I boxed one up. I drove it up to San Francisco, and I delivered it to Elon in twenty sixteen. bunch of researchers were there. Computer build was there. Elon was there. There was a bunch of people there, and I walked up to the second floor where they were all kind of in a room, this smaller than your place here, and and that place turned out to have been opening. Mmm. Twenty sixteen. Wow. Just a bunch of people sitting in a room. It's not really a non profit anymore, though. They're not. They're not non profit anymore. Yeah. We're not that works. Yeah, yeah, but anyhow, anyhow, Elon was there.
In the industry in 1993, our applications that normal computers can solve because if the normal computers can solve them, why would the application exist? And so, we had a mission statement for a company that has no chance of success. But I didn't know that in 1993. It just sounded like a good idea, right? And so, we created this thing that can solve problems. You know, it's like you actually have to go create the problem. And so that's what we did. In 1993, there was no quake. John Carmack hadn't released Doom yet. You probably remember that. Sure. Yeah. And and there were no applications for it. And so I went to Japan because the arcade industry had this at the time of Sega. If you remember, sure the arcade machines they came out with 3D arcade systems, Virtual Fighter, Daytona, Virtual Cop. All of those arcade games were in 3D for the very first time, and the technology they were using was from Martin Marietta. The flight simulators they took the guts out of a flight simulator and put it into an arcade machine. The system that you have over here, it's got to be a million times more powerful than that arcade machine, and that was a flight simulator for NASA. Whoa. And so they took the guts out of that. They were they were using it for flight simulation jets and you know, special and they took the guts out of that. And Sega had this brilliant computer developer. His name was Yuzuki. Yuzuki, Miyamoto, Sega, and Nintendo. These were the, you know, the incredible pioneers, the visionaries, the incredible artists, and they're both very very technical. They were the origins, really, of of the gaming industry, and Yuzuki pioneered 3D graphics gaming. And so I went. We we created this company and there were no apps. And we were spending all of our afternoons. We told our family we were going to work, but it was just the three of us. You know who's going to know? And so we went to Curtis's. My one of one of the founders went to Curtis's townhouse, and Chris and I were married. We have kids. Our dad Spencer Madison. They were probably two years old. And and Chris's kids are about the same age as ours. And we would go to work in the townhouse
Inverse texture mapping. We were doing forward texture mapping. Instead of triangles, we did curved surfaces. So other people did it flat. We did it round. Other technology, technology that ultimately won the technology we used today has has z buffers. It automatically sorted. We had a art texture with no z buffers. The application had to sort it. So we chose a bunch of technology approaches. That three major technology choices, all three choices were wrong. Okay, so this is how incredibly smart we work. And so, and so, nineteen ninety five, nineteen early mid ninety five, we realized we were going down the wrong path. Meanwhile, the Silicon Valley was packed with three D graphics startups because it was the most exciting technology of that time. And so three D effects and rendition, Silicon Graphics was coming in. Intel was already in there, and you know, gosh, what added up eventually to a hundred different startups we had to compete against. Everybody had chosen the right technology approach, and we chose the wrong one. And so we were the first company to start. We found ourselves essentially dead last with the wrong answer. And so the company was in trouble. And ultimately, we had to make several decisions. The first decision is: well, if we change now, we will be the last company. And even if we changed into the technology that we believe to be right, we'd still be dead. And so that argument, you know, do we change and therefore be dead? Don't change and make this technology work somehow, or go do something completely different. That question stirred the company strategically and was a hard question. I eventually, you know, advocated for we don't know what the right strategy is, but we know what the wrong technology is. So let's stop doing it the wrong way, and let's give ourselves a chance to go figure out what the strategy is. The second thing, the second problem we had was our company was running out of money, and I had I was in a contract with Sega, and I owed them this game console. And if that contract would have been canceled, we'd be dead. We would have vaporized instantly. And so, so I went to Japan and I explained to the CEO of Sega, Iriyama, really great man. He was the former CEO of Honda USA. Went back to Sega to run Sega. Went back to Japan and Sega. And I explained to him that I was, I guess, I was what thirty
Dollars, that they were going to complete the contract, to give that money as an investment. Instead, and he said, "But it's very likely your company will go out of business, even with the investment." And it's completely true. Back then, ninety ninety five five million dollars was a lot of money. It's a lot of money today. Five million dollars was a lot of money, and here's a pile of competitors doing it right. What are the chances that giving Nvidia five million dollars that we would develop the right strategy that he would get a return on that five million dollars or even get it back? Zero percent. You do the math. It's zero percent. If I was sitting right there, I wouldn't have done it. Five million dollars was a mountain of money to say it at the time, and so I told him that that that um, if you invested that five million dollars in us, it is most likely to be lost. But if you did invest that money, we'd be out of business and we wouldn't have no chance. And I, I told him that I, I don't even know exactly what he said in the end, but I told him that I would understand if he decided not to, but it would make the world to me if he did. He went off and thought about it for a couple days and came back and said, "We'll do it." Wow. Strategy and how to correct what it was doing wrong. Oh man! Oh man! Wait! I tell you the rest of it. It's scary. Even scarier. Oh no! And so, so, so what he what he decided was was that Jensen was a young man. He liked that's it. Wow! To this day, that's nuts. I was boy, you but the world knows that guy. No doubt, right? Like what he he celebrated today in Japan, and if he would have kept that five, that the investment, I think it'd be worth probably about a trillion dollars today. I know, but the moment we went public, they sold. They goes, "Wow, that's a miracle!" Wow! So yeah, they sold the Nvidia valuation about three hundred million. That's our IPO valuation, three hundred million. Wow. And so, so anyhow, I was incredibly grateful. Um, and then now we had to figure out what to do, because we still were doing the wrong strategy, wrong technology. So
3D graphics. We reimagined the way that manifests today. The modern 3D graphics. We really invented modern 3D graphics, but we learned from previous known arts, and we implemented fundamentally differently. What did you do to change it? Well, you know, ultimately, ultimately, the the simple the simple answer is that the way Silicon Graphics works, the geometry engine is a bunch of software running on processors. We took that and eliminated all the generality, the general purposeness of it, and we reduced it down into the most essential part of 3D graphics. And we hard coded it into, and so instead of something general purpose, we hard coded it very specifically into just the limited applications, limited functionality necessary for video games. And that capability, that super, and because we reinvented all the bunch of stuff, it supercharged the capability that one little chip, and our one little chip was generating images as fast as a one million dollar image generator. That was the big breakthrough. We took a million dollar thing, and we put it into the graphics card that you now put into your gaming PC, and that was our big invention. And then, of course, the question is: is how do you compete against these 3D other companies doing what they're doing? And and there we did we did several things. One, instead of building a 3D graphics chip for every 3D graphics application, we decided to build a 3D graphics chip for one application. We bet the farm on video games. The needs of video games are very different than needs for CAD, needs for flight simulators. They're related, but not the same. And so we narrowly focused our problem statement so I could reject all of the other complexities, and we shrunk it down into this one little focus, and then we supercharged it for gamers. And the second thing that we did was recreated a whole ecosystem of working with game developers and getting their games ported and adapted to our silicon, so that we could turn essentially what is a technology business into a platform business, into a game platform business. So we, you know, GeForce is really today it's also the most advanced 3D graphics technology in the world. But a long time ago, GeForce is really the game console inside your PC. It's you know it runs Windows, it runs Excel, it runs PowerPoint. Of course, those are easy things, but its fundamental purpose was simply to turn your PC
Here we are. We built so before GeForce was Rev 128. Rev Rev 128 saved the company. It revolutionized computer graphics. The performance, cost-performance ratio of 3D graphics for gaming was off the charts, amazing. And we're getting ready to ship it. Get what we're building it, but we're so. I don't know. Five million dollars doesn't last long, and so every single month, every single month, we were drawing down. You have to build it, prototype it. You have to design it, prototype it. Get the silicon back, which costs a lot of money. Test it with software, because without the software testing the chip, you don't know the chip works. Then you're going to find a bug, probably, because every time you test something, you find bugs. Which means you have to tape it out again, which is more time, more money. And so we did the math. There was no chance anybody was going to survive it. We didn't have that much time to tape out the chip, send it to a foundry, TSMC, get the silicon back, test it, send it back out again. There was no no shot, no hope. And so, the math, the spreadsheet doesn't allow us to do that. And so, I heard about this company, and this company built this machine. And this machine is an emulator. You could take your design, all of the software that describes the chip, and you could put it into this machine, and this machine will pretend it's our chip. So I don't have to send it to the fab, wait until the fab sends it back. Test. I could have this machine pretend it's our chip, and I could put all of the software on top of this machine, call it emulator, and test all of the software on this pretend chip, and I could fix it all. Before I send it to the fab, and if I could do that, when I send it to the fab, it should work. Nobody knows, but it should work. And so we came to the conclusion that let's take half of the money we had left in the bank. At the time, was about a million dollars. Take half of that money and go buy this machine. So instead of keeping the money to stay alive, I took half of the money to go buy this machine. Well, I called this guy up. This company
I didn't start production. I'd be out of business anyways. If I could start production, I might have a chance. And so, TSMC decided to support me. And this gentleman's name Morris Chang. Morris Chang is the father of the foundry industry, the founder of TSMC. Really great man. He decided to support our company. I explained to them everything. He decided to support us, frankly, probably because they didn't have that many other customers anyhow. But they were grateful, and I was immensely grateful. And as we were starting the production, Morris flew to the United States, and he didn't say many words. Asked me so, but he asked me a whole lot of questions that was trying to tease out, do I have any money? But he didn't directly ask me that, you know. And so the truth is that we didn't have all the money, but we had a strong P.O. from the customer. And if it didn't work, some way or source would have lost. I'm, you know, I'm not exactly sure what would have happened, but we would have come short. It would have been, it would have been rough. But they supported us with all of that. Discovered, we launched the chip. Turned out to have been completely revolutionary. Not the ball out of the park. We became the fastest growing technology company in history to go from zero to one billion dollars. So wild! We did the chip. Yeah, we did that afterwards. Yeah, we did that afterwards. Afterward, but
They never rest. You're never sitting on your laurels. You're always on the edge. I have a greater drive from not wanting to fail than the drive of wanting to succeed. Is that like I've got coaches tell you that? Yeah, I've heard the world has just heard me say that for out loud for the first time, but but it's true. Well, that's the fear of failure drives me more than than the the greed or whatever it is. Ultimately, that's probably a more healthy approach. Nothing thinking about it because like the fear of not ambitions, for example, you know I just want to stay alive, Joe. I want the company to thrive, you know. I want us to make an impact. That's interesting. Yeah, well, maybe that's why you're so humble. That's what maybe that's what keeps you grounded, you know. Because with the kind of spectacular success the company achieved, would be easy to get a big head, no, right? But isn't that interesting? It's like the if you were the guy that your main focus is success, you probably would go well, made it, nailed it. I'm the man. It's dead. It's dead. You wake up like I would give up this up. No, every morning, every morning, no, every moment. Yeah, that's crazy. Before I go to bed, well, listen, if I was a major investor in the company, that's what I'd want. Running it, I'm a guy who that's what I worked for. Yeah, that's what I worked. That's why I worked seven days a week. Every moment I'm awake, you work every moment every moment I'm awake. Wow, I'm thinking about solving a problem. I'm thinking about how can I keep this up. I don't know, but could be next week. It's exhausting. It is exhausting. Completely exhausting. Always in a state of anxiety. Wow. Yeah. Always in a state of anxiety. Well, kudos to you for admitting that. I think that's important for a lot of people to hear because you know there's probably some young people out there that are in a similar position to where you were when you were starting out that just feel like all those people that have made it they're just smarter than me and they had more opportunities than me and it's just like it was handed to them or they're just in the right
And all every single day help me overcome these challenges. Trying to realize, realize what I describe to be our strategy, doing their best. And if it's somehow wrong or not perfectly right, tell me so that we could pivot. And the more vulnerable we are as a leader, the more able other people are able to tell you, you know that something that's not exactly right or right. Have you considered this information or, and the more vulnerable we are, the more able we're actually able to pivot. If we put ourselves into this superhuman capability, then it's hard for us to pivot strategy, right? Because we're supposed to be right all along. And so, if you're always right, how can you possibly pivot? Because pivoting requires you to be wrong. And so, I've got no trouble with being wrong. I just have to make sure that I stay alert, that I reason about things from first principles all the time, always break things down, the first principles, understand why it's happening, reassess continuously. The reassessing continuously is kind of partly what causes continuous anxiety. You know, because you're asking yourself, "Were you wrong yesterday? Are you still right? Is this the same? Has that changed? Has that condition? Is that worse than you thought? " Because that mindset is perfect for your business, though, because the business is ever changing all the time, and I've got competition coming from every direction. So much of it is kind of up in the air. And you have to invent the future, where a hundred variables are included, and there's no way you could be right on all of them. And so you have to be, you have to surf. Wow, you have to surf. That's a good way to put it. You have to surf. Yeah, you're surfing waves of technology and innovation. That's right. You can't predict the waves. You got to deal with the ones you have. Wow. And but skill matters. And I've been doing this for 30. I'm the longest-running CEO in the world. Is that true? Congratulations. That's amazing. And you know, people ask me how is one don't get fired. I'll stop short there. And two, don't get bored. Yeah. Well, how do you maintain your enthusiasm? The honest truth is, it's not always enthusiasm. You know, sometimes it's enthusiasm, sometimes it's good old-fashioned
The world's greatest computer scientists want to be part of it, because they get to do their life's work and create the next thing, because that's what they want to do. Because maybe they're not, they don't want to be in service of another business. They want to be in service of the technology itself, and we're the largest form and kind in history of the world. Wow, I know it's pretty amazing. Wow. And so, so one, you know, we have a we we have got a great condition, we have a great culture, we have great people, and now now now the question is how do you systematically, um, be able to see the future, stay alert of it, and reduce the reduce the the likelihood of missing something or being wrong. And so, there's a lot of different ways you do that. For example, we have great partnerships. We have fundamental research. We have a great research lab, one of the largest industrial research labs in the world today. And we partner with a whole bunch of universities and other scientists. We do a lot of open collaboration, and so I'm constantly working with researchers outside outside the company. We have the benefit of having amazing customers, and so I have the benefit of working with Elon, and you know, and others in the industry, and we have the benefit of being the only pure pure play technology company that can serve. Consumer internet, industrial manufacturing, scientific computing, healthcare, financial services—all the industries that we're in—they're all signals to me. And so they all have mathematicians and scientists, and so because I I have the benefit now of a radar system that is the most broad of any company in the world, working across every single industry from agriculture to energy. To video games, and so the ability for us to have this vantage point—one doing fundamental researches, and then two working with all the great researchers, working with all the great industries—the feedback systems incredible, and then finally. You have to have a culture of staying super alert. There's no easy way of being alert except for paying attention. I haven't found a single way of being able to stay alert without paying attention. And so, you know, I probably read several thousand emails a day. Wow, how do you have time for that? I wake up early this morning. I was up at four o'clock. How much do you sleep? Six seven six seven hours. Yeah, and then you're up
I guess 1973, 1974 time frame. You know, Thailand every so often they would just have a coup. You know, the military would have an uprising, and all of a sudden one day they were tanks and soldiers in the streets. And my parents thought, you know, probably isn't safe for kids to be here, and so they contacted my uncle. My uncle lives in Tacoma, Washington, and we had never met him. And my parents sent us to him. How old were you? I was about to turn nine, and my older brother almost turned eleven. And so the two of us came to the United States, and we stayed with our uncle for a little bit while he looked for a school for us. And my parents didn't have very much money, and they never went to the United States. My father was—I'll tell you that story in a second—and and so my my uncle found a school that would accept foreign students and affordable enough for my parents. And that school turned out to be in Opeida, Kentucky, Clark County, Kentucky, the epicenter of the opioid crisis today. Coal country, Clark County, Kentucky is was the poorest county in America when I showed up. It is the poorest county in America today, and so we went to the school. It's a great school, Opeida Baptist Institute, in a town of a few hundred. I think was six hundred at the time that we showed up. No traffic light, and I think it's six hundred today. It's kind of amazing. Feet actually, the ability to hold your population for what a six hundred people is quite a magic, quite a magical thing. How did they do it? And and so the school had a mission of being an open school for any children who would like to come. And what that basically means is that if you're a troubled student, if you have a troubled family, um, if you're you know whatever your background, you're welcome to come to Opeida Baptist Institute, including kids from international who would like to stay there. Did you speak English at the time? Uh, okay, yeah, okay, yeah, and so we showed up, and my first my first thought was, "Gosh, there are a lot of cigarettes underground. " A hundred percent of the kids. So right away, you know, this is not a normal school. Nine year olds? No, I was the youngest kid.
To went to the junior high, and so we were there for a couple of years. Every kid had every kid had chores. My older brother's chore was to work in the tobacco farm. You know, so tobacco they raise tobacco so they they could raise money for school, kind of like a penitentiary. Wow. And my job was just to clean the dorm, and so I was nine years old. I was cleaning toilets and for a dorm about hundred hundred boys. I clean more bathrooms than anybody, and I just wish everybody was a little bit more careful. But anyways, I was the youngest kid in school. The my memories of it was really good, but it was a pretty it was a tough town. Towns, yeah. Town kids, they all carried everybody had knives. Oof. Everybody had knives. Everybody smoked. Everybody had a cigarette lighter. I smoked for a week. Did you? Oh yeah. How old were you? I was nine. When you nine? You nine? You tried smoking? Yeah, I got myself a pack of cigarettes. Everybody else did. Did you get sick? No, I get used to it. Yeah, and learned how to blow blow a smoke rings, and you know, you know, breathe out and you know, you know, take it and out of through my nose. All the different things you learned. Yeah. At nine. Yeah. Wow. You just didn't fit in, or yeah, because everybody else did, right? Yeah. And and then I I did it for a couple of weeks, I guess, and I just rather have I had a quarter, you know, I had a quarter a month or something like that. I just rather buy popsicles and fruit circles. When I was nine, you know, right? I chose I chose the the better path. Wow. That was our school, and then my parents came to the states two years later, and we met them in Tacoma, Washington. That's wild. It was a really crazy experience. What a strange formative experience. Yeah, tough kids. Thailand to one of the poorest places in America, where I am not the poorest. As a nine year old, that was my first trip. Yeah, with your brother. Wow. Yeah. Yeah, now I I and what breaks my heart, probably the only thing that really breaks my heart about that experience was. So we didn't have enough money to make, you know, international phone
Really poor, and when they came to us, they they had almost no money. Probably one of the most impactful memories I have is is we they came and we were we were staying in a hotel in a apartment complex, and they had they had just rent back in I guess people still do rent rent a bunch of furniture, and we were messing around, and we bumped into the coffee table and crushed it. It was made out of particle wood. We crushed it, and I just still remember the look on my mom's face. You know because they didn't have any money and she didn't know how she was going to pay it back. And but anyhow, that's that kind of tells you how hard it was for them to come here. But they they left everything behind and all they had was their suitcase and the money they had in their in their pocket. And they came to us. They how old were they pursuing? They were in their forties. Wow, yeah, late late thirties. Pursuing the American dream. This is this this the American dream. I'm the first generation of the American dream. Wow. Yeah, it's hard not to love this country. That that it's it's hard not to be romantic about this country. That is a romantic story. That's an amazing story. Yeah, and and my dad found his job, literally in the newspaper. You know the ads. He calls people, got a job. What did he do? He was a consulting engineer, and a and a consulting firm, and they helped people build, oil refineries, paper mills, and fabs, and that's what he did. He was he he's really good at factory design. Instrumentation engineer, and so he's he's brilliant at that. And so he did that, and my mom worked as a maid, and they found a way to raise us. Wow. That's an incredible story, Johnson. Really is every all of it from your childhood to the perils of Nvidia almost falling. It's really incredible, man. It's a great story. Yeah, I've lived a great life. You really have, and it's a great story for other people to hear too. It really is. You don't you don't have to go to Ivy League schools to succeed. This country creates opportunities. Has opportunities for all of us. You do have to try. You have to claw your way here. Yeah, but if you put in the work
This is uh, see, two thousand, two thousand six, twenty years ago, two thousand five. Wow, our stock price went. I think our valuation went down to like two or three billion dollars, from from about twelve or something like that. I crushed it. Wow, very bad way. Yeah, was it now though? Yeah, yeah, it's higher. Very humble. It's higher, but it changed the world. Yeah, that invention changed the world. It's an incredible story, Johnson. It really is. Thank you. Like your story, it's incredible. My story is not as incredible. My story is more weird. You know, much more for two. It's more weird. Okay, what are the three milestones that most important milestones that led to here? That's a good question. What was step one? I think step one was seeing other people do it. Step one was in the initial days of podcasting. Like in two thousand nine, when I started podcasting, it only been around for a couple years. The first was Adam Curry, my good friend, who was the pod father. He he invented podcasting, and then you know, I remember Adam Crowe had a show because he had a radio show. His radio show got canceled, and so he decided to do the same show but do it on the internet, and that was pretty revolutionary. You know what he was doing that, and then there was the experiences that I had doing different morning radio shows, like Opie Anthony and Pretorius, because it was fun, and we would just get together with a bunch of comedians. You know, I'd be on the show with like three or four other guys that I knew, and it was always just look forward to it. It was it was just such a good time, and I said, God, I miss doing that. It's so fun to do that. I wish I could do something like that. Or and then I saw Tom Green set up. Tom Green had set up in his house, and he essentially turned his entire house into a television studio, and he did an internet show from his living room. He had servers in his house and cables everywhere to step over cables. I was just like, two thousand seven. Like, Tom, this is not like this is. And like you got to figure out a way to make money from this. Like I wish everybody, I wish everybody internet could see your setup.
Up on that list. No, I wanted to talk to you already. I just think you know what you are doing is very fascinating, and how I not want to talk to you. And then today it proved to be absolutely the right decision. Well, you know, listen, it's it's strange to be an immigrant one day, going to only a Baptist Institute with with the students that were there, and then here, Nvidia's one of the most consequential companies in the history of companies. Is a crazy story. Yeah, to be that journey is yeah, and it's very humbling, and and I am very grateful. It's pretty amazing. Surround by amazing people. You are very fortunate, and you've also you seem very happy, and you seem like you are one hundred percent on the right path in this life. You know, you know. Every says you must love your job, not every day. That's not you know what I am saying. Yeah, beauty of everything. Yeah, is that t here is ups and downs. That's right. It's never just like this giant dopamine high. We leave. We leave this impression. Here is here is the impression. I don't think it's healthy. We we um people who are successful leave the impression often that that our job gives us great joy. I think largely it does. That our jobs, we're passionate about our work, and that passion relates to it's just so much fun. I think it largely is, but it it it distracts from. In fact, a lot of success comes from really, really hard work. Yes. Yeah. Long periods of suffering and loneliness and uncertainty and fear and embarrassment and humiliation, all of the feelings that we most not love. That creating something from the ground up, and and Elon will tell you something similar. Very difficult to invent invent something new. Yeah, and people people don't believe you all the time. You are humiliated often, disbelieved most of the time, and so so people forget that part of success, and and I I don't think it's health. I think it's it's good that we pass that forward and let people know that that it's just part of the journey. Yes, and suffering is part of the journey. You will appreciate it so much. These horrible feelings that you have when things are not going so well, you will appreciate it so much more when they do go well. Deeply grateful. Yeah, yeah
