Thank you so much for joining me, and also having us here at Tesla Global Engineer Headquarters. So amazing to see kind of new technology innovations. All talented engineers here as well. Yeah. In this May, you were also on the delegation to China as well. You made the presentation. What's your impression about President Xi, the leader? Well, I think it seems like a great leader. He's understanding China prospering immensely. I mean, I've seen it firsthand. Like you, if you visit China, you see that the amount of progress that happens from one year to the next, or even within a year, it's very visible. Like you can see the new buildings, the new infrastructure, and it's also to see that just walking down the streets, the increased prosperity of the average Chinese citizen has increased tremendously. And that's well, that's happened under President Xi's you know while he's been the leader of China. So, so it's clearly done very you know, an excellent job, and it's very capable. Tesla Gigafactory in Shanghai has always done an incredible job with a pretty large team and times. So, what kind of advantages or breakthroughs do you think that to making the Shanghai factory a very important position in Tesla's global brand and ultimately kind of confidence to doing this whole you know and fold, especially in the market? Well, I mean, China just has a very strong inherent ability to manufacture well, and this has been true not just in present days, but for the past 3,000 years. I think the future of the magic of Tesla Shanghai is because of Chinese. Entirely, entirely. Yeah. We what we have is the Tesla Chinese team is incredibly talented, hardworking, and trustworthy, and they have the quality, excellence, and the efficiency, excellence. So the Tesla Shanghai factory is is a you know it's it's beautiful, it's beautiful actually. Anyone there? We also care a lot about taking care of workers and making sure that you know they get health care and good food and direct coming to work, very well. So absolutely, I think we can tell like all you were starting the Shanghai factory, and we're enjoying working there. So we're talking the next hot topic recently. We probably we can call subtemper is the Cybercab. Have you seen that we just like all the people gather around that? Yes, it's it's goes very very well. Yeah. I mean, it's
It's not as good as, say, OpenAI's 5.5 that just got released. But also, we're we've only been around for about three years doing AI, whereas Anthropic's been around for six years. So, so I would expect that we probably catch up to Frontier sometime next next year, most likely. In the meantime, I think Grok is very useful for many things, and Grokbot, as kind of like a personal digital assistant, has been very popular and is growing about 100 a month. So it's growing very rapidly. I think you are very humble. You're saying that like Grok 4.7 is still not the perfect one, but we know that although have experienced a little bit delay, but you know that people are already very fascinated or interested to.
