Good evening, Brussels. We are Gogo Penguin from Manchester, and we are very happy to be back at AB. We love this place, and we love you guys. So, thanks for coming to listen. We have an album that came out last year. Yeah, it's called Necessary Fictions. We haven't actually toured it so much, so this is the first time that we've we've played it in in Belgium, and you know, we've only done a few gigs before this. So, yeah, it's it's still fresh for us. So, even though it came out last year, so we the first two tunes from the new album, we played something a bit older called Bardo. This next one is also from the new album. It's called The Turn Within.
Thank you so much. That's from Necessary Fictions. It's called "What We Are." What we are meant to be. This next one is also from the new album, and it's called "Naga Ghost."
That's John Scott on the drums, and Chris Illingworth on the piano. My name is Mick Clarke on the bass. Thank you. Going to play something now, tiny bit calmer. This featured on, last featured on a live record that we made a couple of years ago, called From the North Live in Manchester, and this is called Ascend.
Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. You've been amazing. We we always love playing in Belgium. We always love playing in Brussels. We always love playing in AB. So it means a lot to us to play to a sold out crowd tonight, and we really appreciate you coming to see us. So thank you. I should mention that today is a day that we release our new EP. We haven't played anything from it tonight, so if you've heard it on streaming and you like what you hear, you can go and buy the vinyl at the merch, or you can just take a chance and take our word for it that it's pretty good. Or you know we're going to be around afterwards near the merch, so just come say hi. That's where we'll be. Please put your hands together one more time for Mr. John Scott and the Drums. On the piano, Chris Ellingworth, and Adam Blacker on the double bass. Thank you.
Thank you. We'd like to welcome a very special guest, a very good friend of ours. You've already seen him once tonight, so please welcome back to the stage, Dalby Matsiko. There you go, Bangrin. Incredible. Thank you so much. All in the hands of the saints. Let's begin. Forgive the damages. But you are always there. May time to do it. Try now, just to be less distracted. Spend more time listening. Be more interested. A child that's bold is all I've been trying to do this morning. What to do with the rest of it? Start over again. Close to the end. We don't live like a friend. I could be calm myself. I could. I could be calm myself. I could. I could be calm myself. I could. I could be calm myself. I could. Forgive the damages. I could be calm myself. I could forgive.
If one day I could become myself, I could. I could become myself. I could. The one and only Daudi Matshio.
Thank you so much. You've been amazing. We've loved it. Thank you. Enjoy the rest of your night. Have a great weekend. We'll see you next time.
