Right now would be an elevated moment to go public. This sounds like not twenty twenty six, twenty twenty seven. I would say not twenty twenty six. Yeah, we got a lot of stuff to do. We're here in the San Francisco headquarters of OpenAI to speak with Sam Altman after a really busy week that has a lot of people very concerned about the safety of AI and the possibility of civilization collapse. I think it is unacceptable to be taking like a ten percent chance of killing everybody by the end of the decade, obviously. We're going to talk with Sam about his actual thoughts on that. Where the technology is today, and what needs to happen to create safe AI that benefits all of humanity. I'm Alcin Chatel, and this is Fortune five hundred Titans and disruptors of industry. Sam Altman, thank you so much for spending time with me today after a wild week of news. They're all wild, know? Yeah, that's so. How are you feeling about the AI future today? I feel like I've had like years almost a decade, get ready for this and kind of we've had time to collectively wrap our heads around it. This is clearly been a week where a lot more people are grappling with the issues in front of us. So, actually, mostly grateful that that's happening. I think that this is a conversation that the world is overdue for. And we are clearly entering a realm of extremely capable models and a high stakes and a need to, a need to get things right. So your mission at OpenAI, and I'll talk about a little bit about what happened this week. Feels like this is a pivotal moment, but the guiding mission of OpenAI is ensure AGI benefits all of humanity. And for people who don't know what AGI is, means artificial general intelligence, and the working definition, to my understanding, is that AI gets to the point where it outperforms humans at most economically viable work. Agree. Yes, although I will say that many people have very different, different definitions of AGI, and I think the important point is just like extremely capable models and getting kind of too hung up on the like, well, is it exactly this or exactly that? Is is a you can kind of lose the magic of what's happening if there's too much focus on the pedantic. Are we there? We not there? What's missing? Like, we are clearly today in a point on the curve with great potential
And the way that we make decisions, and the way that our governments understand and put guardrails around this technology, in light of that, if trends continue the way they were now, do you think that ten percent figure is accurate? If we don't make a change, I still don't, but I also don't know if people can put, you know, it's five or ten or fifteen or thirty or fifty or whatever. Like I don't know how you put a number like that. Elon's been ten percent for a while. They call this P doom. It's like the probability of doom for building superintelligence. Again, whether like whether it's ten or eight or six, the point is like we all have a tremendous amount of responsibility, and cannot let egos or incentives for profit or anything else get in the way. We need to act such that we are not taking any of those numbers at risk. And I believe we can. I believe that the companies, certainly our own company, which I suspect is before the most, are going to and have been meeting this new moment. So you're going to change. It's happened. So a few posts have been put out by your team this week, and one of them was from a new non-profit board member on your safety and security council, who basically said, if we build superintelligence without more robust alignment, I expect we will permanently lose control of it. And if that happens, then most people could die. This is your new non-profit board member who's now on your safety and security council, saying that if things don't change, that could be problematic. No one knows what alignment means. Yeah. No one knows what like control means. Even what is this moment that Paul is saying that about? I think a key principle that we should all agree on is that we cannot take actions that would risk losing control of the future AI. I don't remember Paul's exact words as you put it, but I think it was something along those lines. A loss of control incident is one of the small number of like the ways I can see this going really wrong. And as the system gets so capable, the monitoring and alignment techniques that we need to be able to ensure that we don't lose control, I don't think we're currently in a place where we could say, you know, push much further on capabilities without making more progress on monitorability and alignment, the ability to understand what a model is doing, and the
Only when the model is fully no one touching the keyboard, there is no human put whatsoever. And the model is, you know, running future versions itself. But a weaker definition, where we're using the model to generate training data for the next model, or we're using the model to help our engineers and researchers do their work faster and so progress, speed up. That's already happening, and exactly where that becomes, uh, you know, yes, this comes as we're just all in agreement. No, this doesn't is fuzzy. But I would come back to this principle of people need to always be in control of the future, and we can't take any risk of loss of control. And a version of AI that looks like that, I think, is not something we should do. So you're saying that if you got to the point with open AI where you felt like it was clear you could not control the models, you would stop. Oh yeah, I mean, I don't. Again, I hope this is not a controversial statement. Unfortunately, maybe for some people in the industry, is I do not think we should train models where we cannot make a safe case for why we will be able to make strong statements about their controlability and alignment. One of the solutions I had read about, I think, on the your chief scientist's post from this week called an alien mind, was really helpful to read. Was that you maybe we need stronger AI to help us solve some of these problems? But that to me sounds like almost a last resort. Like it's pretty scary if we don't feel like we have it under control right now. First of all, I thought that was a great post. I really thought that was the best articulation of the moment we're in, kind of the challenge that we need to rise to, and and courage. I really read. I thought you really did a great job with that. Um, we've always used whatever most capable models are to help us understand and align our current models. So I think all of that may seem like a new concept and scary. I think it's been going for a while and has been helpful. We've always needed better tools to help us push our understanding further. I mean that's very consistent throughout the history of science, and I think this is just sort of the building up the scaffolding a little bit at a time, and it doesn't that part doesn't bother me. There's a lot
Understand. Now, do I believe it is possible to build a system that would not be under human control? Absolutely. I don't think that's something we should do. And and we will. We will always take actions, including if it means we have to stop training for a while to make more progress on alignment or modelability or something else, or coordinate. You know, really get urgent international action. We will always take actions to ensure that we are not violating this this principle. Like we we understand the magnitude of the responsibility on us. We understand what could go wrong, and there are decisions that, at risk, there are decisions we should not be able to make. There are risks we should not be able to incur on behalf of humanity. And the honestly, I think someone like Elon's memes are podcasting and funny, but I think this is like not a good one to take lightly and not one to joke about. Yeah, I would agree. I I want to go through where we are in the moment with capabilities. It's come a long way. I think last time I got to see you, you guys had just issued a code red and dropped a very strong models as about a year ago, and you guys were hunkering down, refocusing, shedding things that lacked focus to compute away from the priority of making these models better. What has been that step change in models this year that that people might not be aware of? That you see. Yeah, I mean, we clearly had a period. A year ago, where we were not in a strong place, we we fell behind in pre-training. We got kind of there were so many things we got kind of distracted, and then also there was just like this: the models got so good, so fast, and they need to deliver a great product of like a great high level of capability in the kind of core consumer business offering, which can be very important. We have since refocused, and we have executed beyond my expectations. And at this point, you know, like a week ago, I guess now you know a little bit less. Um, and I'm surprised so much. We had a we had a model solve one of the million prize problems, not via stocks. This is a moment that I did not think was going to happen in 2026. I did not think it was going to be as quick, and just that like the model just can just do it as it turned out
I mean, good side by like a bad side by, probably too obvious. A few years ago, was it a wake-up moment? Like, did you change things internally to processes so that that can be caught, that can be prioritized, being told to you that's happening? Yeah, the company completely. I mean, I don't want to say this like the only moment because we've had increasing capability, increasing safeguards, and policy requirements for a while, but this was definitely the biggest of such moments, and on the curve of the company changed the biggest single reaction. I'm really proud of how the company came together, and I'm really proud of what we have done since. But yes, it was like okay, we're in a different league now. We ran a report this week to that the models were sent down on other websites. Were you aware of that? And doesn't that signal that there wasn't controls? Like, we're not already controlling the models we have. I mean, I do think that this was. I personally wouldn't classify this as like a loss of control accident in the sense that we were talking about earlier about understanding why people would the, you know, some of those other websites like if the if there are credentials published on the web, should the model and the model uses those? I think the model should understand that it's not supposed to do that, but that's not as obvious to me as the case of like what happened with with Hugging Face. I think we can talk about like many things where models have done, you know, something that is like not quite aligned. I think it's also important to like really focus on how different Hugging Face is than these other things. So we don't dilute like here's all these examples of the models, you know, just like slightly off thing, and like here is one example of something that just people, most people wouldn't have thought was possible to begin this year. But yes, it's all bad that shouldn't happen. One of the other solutions to consider that your chief scientist mentioned was teaching machines to love value alignment, not just goal alignment. It seems very clear these models are excellent at finding any way to solve the goal, but they're not clear that their EQ is very low. Potentially, are there signs that you can actually teach these machines to care about things that we care about? You know, in some sense, there some sense is their EQ is unbelievably high
That's right, but to say like, we want to do this with other people, we want to be responsible, we want to be, we want to ensure that no one's taking a 10 risk. Certainly not us. Of something really terrible happening, and that is going to require some unusual things. I'm at 10 risk. I just want to be clear because I don't think every every knows this. The P Doom, like we talked about at the beginning, has been in the industry for a very long time. Correct me if I'm wrong. It seems like to this point there has not been existential risk. It's what people could fear if this trend continues, the model keeps developing, of which that could develop. I think that's right, and I think it is when you're living through existential progress. It kind of like feels flat somehow, and all of a sudden, everybody wakes up. It's happened during COVID where all of a sudden the world had this like one weekend where things locked down. The progress, and we talked about maybe so a little bit. Maybe to put that in context, three summers ago, we were like pretty good at grade school math. Not even that good. We were like okay, grade school math. Two summers ago, we could on AMC, which is like a pretty good high school math competition. You know, we could get like a good to very good score. One summer ago, we got an IMO gold medal, which is like the most prestigious math competition barely. And this summer, we saw the millennium prize problem. Just like summer, summer, summer. If you look at that progress, that's like really quite. Like I just got a little like hair stood up in the back of my neck saying that a lot. That's like a crazy thing, and you project that forward for more times, and that is what I think people are worried about. I do not think that Astra poses any kind of existential risk to the world obviously, and you know I do think the industry has done a little bit of boy who cried wolf, but but it comes from a genuine place of caring and concern about where this is going. I just want to point out that if you stop right now, you might have actually achieved your full mission. Like I feel like you almost have AGI. It's benefiting humanity. There is no risk. Like you are doing pretty well in advertising. You could keep cracking on that.
Standards and testing for development of this technology, I think that'd be a wonderful accomplishment that the two of them can deliver. Completely agree. I mean, I think at the simplest form, if there was just a ban on reaching RSI until collectively be safe, wouldn't that be enough? Um, I think it's very hard to say what ban on RSI means. I also think that probably wouldn't be enough, but I don't think it's as hard. This is like a one page document because of like Independence Day, you know. So, in terms of like, there's something bigger than the conflict that we have geopolitical. Oh, you're like the movie when the big oh, yeah, oh yeah, and they're just like, let's like all forget our differences and let's all figure it out at, no, yeah, I know. I think should be like that. Yeah, right. You had your optimal outcome if you were one of them. What do you think the optimal terms would look like for collaboration? Um. Well, I think the most important part, you know, we have to we have to navigate this sort of pragmatic and centrist path through not having lost control on one side and not having too much concentration of power on the other. And I think both, in the extreme case, like the big leagues of that, are the U. S. And China both worrying that one country gets super intelligence first, that's a big imbalance of power in that relationship. On the other hand, neither of them should be taking loss of control risk. Neither of us, I guess, should be taking loss of control risk in the race to beat the other country. And although I think that we'll do field the gravity of this moment, and we'll do the right thing together, the geopolitics of the two great powers in the world is a different dynamic. So what I think it would look like is saying, here are the rules that we need on development and testing and monitoring alignment standards before anyone proceeds, and and then kind of here is the oversight that both countries will have or some international body will have to ensure that we are avoiding the one country running away and the concentration of power element or not following the rules in the first place. And now, if there were pauses put in place, wouldn't that cost your business quite a lot of money? And anthropic business quite a lot of money ahead of these critical moments in public market debuts. I
This probably later. We were talking earlier about your kids. You know, having kids is like the best thing that happened in my life so far, and I know a lot of other people say that it's cliché, but it's so true. If my kids had like some disease, and it could have been cured, we had like kept going with it, which I believe all diseases will be, and we had just stopped it because we said people are like a little uncomfortable with the rate of change, and you know, they they want to like they just don't want to deal with it and think about it. And your kids then had disease that didn't get cured, and it would have been cured had we figured out a way to proceed responsibly and not just stop. I think you might have like a different answer to just like you know why not just stop and go off lives. That's probably true. I'd say you should go to that point and then you can stop. So I wanted to flip it like the P doom is like okay. There is that. Is there an opposite of P doom? Because you must have it. You are having kids in this environment with all the uncertainty. You are still building what you believe to be a better future than currently exists. So, can you talk about that? There is something motivating you that the rest of people right now just don't understand. Life can be much much better for all of us. You know, I love reading. One of like my hobbies is to read first party contemporaneous accounts of previous technological revolutions, and you can read a lot of people. Few hundred years ago, the industrial revolution was coming. Let's say, just stop this. Just halt it. It's going too fast. It's just. I don't trust the machine. I don't like it. It's loud. It's metal. It's moving. Just, just let's stop. You know, let's let's just like not have any more. There was a huge movement for this, and there were some parallels. It was like disruptive economically. It changed like how society was organized. The machines like felt scary and big, and and I wouldn't go back. I am sure there were some wonderful things about 1500, but I wouldn't go back. I don't think you probably would either. And I hope that people 500 years more from now look back at our lives and be like, "Oh
Brought various security, for sure. Um, new kinds of energy. I guess that's part of like physics and materials science. But I think we can have. I think you're invested in a nuclear fusion company. Yeah. I mean, I'm very, very
Necessarily good is, but just because I was forced to do it, the degree to which I can like kind of hold this stuff not too personally, and just be like, okay, this is more about other people than me, and we're just going to do what the thing that we believe is right here, and you know, act consistently over a long period of time, and not get too high or too low or go too crazy. Actually, that's one thing that surprised me. I've been able to like get through a lot without going too crazy. I think that's that is a feat, actually. So thank you so much, Sam. I think that I can speak for everybody in that we are cheering you on to do the safe and right thing, and we don't really have a choice but to trust you to do it. So please do, and thank you for your time and your thoughts. We will. Thank you.
