Today I'm chatting with Noah Brown, who is a researcher at OpenAI. He was one of the foundational contributors to what became one of the reasoning models, and now he's working on multi-agent systems. Speaking of which, you guys announced last week that you solved one of the million problems with a system of 10, 000 different agents that spent 130 billion tokens over 88 hours. One of the reasons I'm interested in talking to you is that I think you're one of the first people maybe two or three years ago who was thinking about how the reasoning models would allow us to see into the future because the scale up in for the computer you can see what the capabilities of the models will be in the future. And I feel like you're in a similar position now to help us understand what future capabilities will look like given the enormous scaling of agent sizes that we can do right now. So the way I think about it, when you plot the performance of these reasoning models with test time compute on the x-axis and performance on basically any reasoning benchmark on the y-axis, you see a very clear pattern where the longer these models take to think about their answer, the better they do. And this is like a very natural thing. The same thing with people: if you're taking the SATs, you have five minutes to go through an entire exam. You're not going to do very well. If you have five hours, you're probably going to do a lot better. The AI models are pretty similar. Then, and they spend that time doing this model, and then they're solving out, going through different cases, ruling out different possibilities, building on some of their previous discoveries. The problem is that as you push out further and further, you hit latency bottleneck. You don't want to sit around for three years waiting for a response. And so what you can do is what a lot of people do is they parallelize. They just get a team of people. You know, if you're if you're going to found a company, you want to get a group of people together so you can go faster. Same thing with these AI models that it helps to just have multiple agents working on something because they can just go faster. And so multi-agent is a way of scaling test time compute in parallel instead of purely serial, and it is like less efficient because it doesn't have it's not like a single agent has all the context to itself, but it
The problem is it's very hard to push that science to like ten thousand agents because it's just so expensive. It's just data over like oh yeah. That's one that's one data point. We we don't know how long it would take a single agent to solve multiple because we haven't we haven't done that experiment yet. Yeah, yeah, and maybe we will, but I mean that's also only one data point, right? And we want to do we want to do a relation. Interesting. Um, it's actually the experiments are just too expensive to go to that scale. Right. So we have to do some kind of like mathematical science about like what happens when you go to like sixty-four, one twenty-eight, fifty-six, or something, and get a sense of the behavior. But it's going to be very hard to push that all the way to like ten thousand and know for sure what was the um the benefit we actually got from using ten thousand agents versus a thousand. Yeah. One thing I want to make clear is that the effort to get it's not like the effort to get a million problems problem. This will not do to multi-agent. I wouldn't even like attribute like ten percent of the the credit to to multi-agent. Like the reality is, we train a openAI has trained like a very powerful model, um, and we can get that model to operate over very long horizons. We can get it to think in parallel, but at its core, the reason why we're able to do this is because we just have a general purpose, very strong model. And I think things like multi agents are flashy and are new, and that probably gets this proportion this proportion of credit for that reason. But the core reason is like this is just a very powerful model. Hmm. So the generalization is actually quite shocking to me. The systems. I mean, we don't. I don't know how these systems are trained, but presumably they were trained how our training happens. You have a bunch of checkable synthetic problems. You do a bunch of our against them, and nowhere in the training process I'm guessing was like the model solving anything as ambitious as a million problems problem. The generalization was strong enough that like you could have this like much easier verifiable problems generalize to this much parallel for on such a hard problem. I think that it's true. Like first of all, we do train the model on on very hard problems, so
Ask the children. The children work on it and return their answers. Well, what happens if two children are given similar tasks? Can they talk to each other? And usually the answer is no. And that's just that's very inefficient, right? If you're if you're given a task, then it's actually really helpful to talk to somebody that might know an answer to a question that you're working on or a part part of something that you're working on. It'd be really helpful if you just be able to ping them and say, "Hey, can you help me out with this thing?" But a lot of systems don't have that set up, and adding it just increases the complexity significantly to the scaffold that you have. Another thing is like, what if the child doesn't really understand or has a clarification question? So it has to choose that between, okay, do I just return and ask the question instead of getting instead of solving the problem, or do I solve the problem just like make a assumption about what the parent wants me to do and and just solve it that way? And so, any scaffold that people come up with is always limitations involved. And the approach we wanted to take was to just go towards the extreme end of baking in as little structure as we could and give the agents very primitive tools to use and figure out for themselves how to use it effectively. So we give the agents the ability to message other agents, and when messaging other agents, is insert into the context, and then they can do like a few other similar things. But that's that's basically the the core of it. That they can just send a message whenever it wants, just a tool call, and they can send it to other agents, and they figure out for themselves the best way to coordinate around that. And it turns out that if this is done well, you get very interesting behavior. And to me, it looks a lot like how human collaborators work over something like Slack, for example. When we were working on this project, it was really exciting. When we finally got it working to see these agents working on problems together, I remember one one example. So we give the agents a problem, and then one agent says, "I think I've got the answer," and then another agent says, "Actually, I got a different answer." And they have this whole discussion about, "Well, how did you arrive at that answer? Can you explain it to me?" And going back
Surprising, the way they're able to polish this is if you if you look at what it's how that it's not very easy to behave. In fact, it's actually very difficult to get these agents to coordinate in the right way because it's actually very tempting for them to just collapse. To overall, this can solve the problem independently. Yeah, yeah, and like that is a local minimum that gets stuck again. But yeah, it's done well. They can be coordinating very effectively, and in these kinds of like very structured ways. I remember I said a couple years ago about something something. Yeah, what are automated forms look like? And I was thinking about well, if you had fully automated forms of, let's say, human level intelligence, what is different about the nature of AI minds that would make the organization of the form different? And there are a couple very important differences. For example, that AI can share context much more seamlessly than humans can. They can merge their knowledge much more seamlessly, and also they can spin up or spin down an arbitrarily arbitrary number of instances, which have the right knowledge. So if you want to hire more people, it's not like just all the schlep of finding the right talent. The way where it's like, if you're best talent, you can just make infinite copies of them. If you don't need them for the task anymore, you like spin them down, and you can just replicate the most effective parts of your organization or like replicate whole organizations together, which are effective. I don't know how we're going to see these multi-agent systems going a year from now to years from now. I think it's a great question of like how do these things actually differ from working with human workers? And I think I think you highlighted some like one really interesting thing is that I mean, if somebody is if you have a person and you want just like to copy them, you can't just like clone the person. Yeah. But with AI, it's actually really easy to say like okay, well, just fork yourself, and then have both copies work on the same thing, and then like merge back together. I mean, we already have this thing in multi agents for for Astro and and Five One Six All that when they spin up, some agents like the context is forked, so they have all the context that's relevant. There are other interesting ways where the agents will differ from people. Like, what are some reasons
We're really good at thinking deeply about a problem, and it just like kind of interrupts the chain of thought, interrupts the flow, to constantly be like checking with other agents, like receiving messages from them. And the observation is actually very hard to get right in that situation. It's very getting a cold start, like getting the first. Well, I really don't like what's good. What's good? I mean, I think it's either not very they're not general. Like, they're really models were just not as generalizable, and were just more narrow. You understand? As the models become more capable, it's been easier for them to develop scalability and do things that as they become stronger and stronger, just across the board, that they will be become better at organizing themselves in large organizations, and like I don't know, maybe they are better than people organizing in 10, 000 person groups, but even if they're not, you know, a year from now, two years from now, like yeah, it's quite possible that they'll do that, even if we don't end up optimizing for that. Okay, so here's why this result and maybe the general progress in mathematics has made me think that our size is more plausible and sooner than previously thought. I feel like we're behind in mathematics from like 2024. You guys were like, oh, okay, I just think they're like doing they can like solve a couple problems in high school math competitions, and then 2025, they're like, wow, they're getting gold in like national math Olympiad. And earlier this year, I was like, wow, they're actually solving open problems in mathematics, like open order problems, but maybe like people were trying that hard, and it was just like there was a similar solution somewhere in the literature. And now I just think it's sort of unavoidable, right? It's like this is the Millennium Prize problem. There's really no, there's no story of why this should be easy. Now a lot of people pointed out, I think there are a lot of posts like this to be ordered and interesting posts about this that they're solving these problems, but they're not like coming up with at least we're I'm not aware of them coming up with new insights or formulating insightful new questions and new modes of theory for thinking in mathematics. Coming up with like topology, coming up with the Cartesian grid
Across the board, and I think that is the wrong takeaway. They're clearly exceptional in some ways, but they are weaker than human mathematicians in in other ways. So we have this like jagged scenario where the models are like brilliant in in some dimensions and also weaker than humans in other dimensions. And yeah, like you said, they're not very good at posing new problems. They're not really good at understanding like what is really worth what what directions, what whole branches of mathematics are worth exploring or developing. And my opinion is that I think this is great. Like I would I would be I would be thrilled to live in a world where AI is a complement to human abilities and is allowing us to discover new knowledge without fully replacing people. Like that is that is the best case scenario. But you don't expect that to actually continue. I do. I I think it's true that the AI is jagged, but as they get better, they get better across the board. Yeah. And so I think that the things that are exceptional, they're going to get even more exceptional. The things where they're far behind humans, that they're going to be left behind humans. And over time, it is possible that they're just better across the board. Now I don't know how long that takes. It depends on depends on how long the long tail is of things that they're bad at. So this brings us back to AI. And again, I I want to emphasize here that like just total AI or a far faster, but I'm just trying to reason or like ask somebody interested and concerned about what's happening in the field and trying to reason about when or what to expect or what kind of thing to expect. Yeah, I feel like the yeah the the amount of cognitive effort that was dumped into this million prize problem is a good indication. But you could have AI that are spending over the course of maybe a week more cognitive effort on a long standing problem like you know very fluid online learning. They could spend more effort in that week than maybe the field spent cumulatively in its entire existence. And then you could say, well, of course, like mathematics, of course, AI requires experiments, and that takes compute, and that takes time, right? You can't just like take a pen and paper and actually make things happen. But if we just look at the amount of compute that is available at an organization like OpenAI, right? By the end of next year,
It looks like, or what the damn, it's all because obviously you've been in the field for like ten years, and I'm sort of trying to reason about it from like very outside view type of. I'll say that like people have different opinions on this. Yeah. I have my opinion on this. I could be, I could totally be wrong. I admit that. Like I have some confidence in this, but I'm not, I'm not like 100% confident. Yeah. This is, this is the way things go. Like maybe there could be a overintellectualization. I don't know. Maybe we don't see a threex. Maybe we like a 50% speed up. Right. There's a lot of uncertainty here. Yeah. A couple of points. Potentially, one thing clarifies something about the jagginess. Yeah. One thing that's drilled for me recently was thinking about the fact that it is enough for the AI to be genuinely good at building a better learner because that better learner can be more general, right? So, yeah, if you just make an AI that's better at using office products or playing chess or something, that's whatever, that's fine. It's not going to lead to big productivity improvements or anything. But if you make an AI that is really good at making something that is more sample efficient, that is capable of continual learning, or these much more well scoped and large problems, the thing that emerges out of that assuming there's good enough transfer from the direct problem-solving and like this broader ability to learn can just be more general, right? So I think that's an important thing I have to keep in mind of why jagginess can still lead to generalization at the end. On this question of, I mean, obviously experiments, problem like because of the date, as you're saying, you have some crazy similarity, you know, overnight at OpenAI, or you'd have eight hours and like it's all the learning progress problem, and then overnight you'd have super intelligence. So obviously, there's a much bigger problem like that. That instead takes many years to have the eight eight hours, but then the question is like, how much of a problem could there be? And it seems to me one thing that's been giving me a bit of a clarity over the go is realizing that even if the current rate of progress simply continues, so doesn't have to speed up, literally
25 percent automation of the labor, 20, 29, 30, 27. I don't know. Man, you just said I don't know the world looks like in 2030. I I think we actually released a blog post recently on internal acceleration. OpenAI. We show, for example, that the amounts that researchers are spending on CODEX is the top one percent. I think as of early August, we're spending like seven or eight thousand dollars a day on on CODEX and for internal use. That's on an exponential. It's going to keep increasing. And there is a question of okay, if that keeps going, then how do you how much do you assign to like the AI doing work versus yeah the human doing work? Is it 25 percent? Is it 5 percent? It's actually, it's really it's really hard to reason about this for a few reasons. Like first of all, if it's the human doing the thing, the AI's doing the work, then is that the human how how much do you attribute to the human, how much do you attribute to the AI? The other thing is that because these AI are gigantic and they're exceptionally good at some things. So for example, they're exceptionally good at looking over datasets and checking every single data point to see like is this is this of sufficient quality. You can disproportionately use the AI for those things compared to previously. So yes, you're using AI way more than before, and it's making some things go like a hundred X faster and a hundred X better. But there are some things where it doesn't make a huge difference yet. And of course, if something is suddenly like a hundred X faster, a hundred X better, you're going to do more of that thing. So are you comparing to speed up like three years ago versus like is is the question more like given what we were doing three years ago, how much faster we able to do now versus given what we're doing now, how much how much slower would it have been three years ago? Is actually two very different questions. So anyway, it's like it's it's really hard to measure. I do feel confident saying that things are going faster now than they were like even years ago because of AI progress. Right. And I think that that that acceleration will continue. I think a lot of people feel like very high errors on this sort of thing. Yeah.
How they coordinate with each other—it's like very impressive. It's like incredible capability. Like most capabilities, that can be used for good things or bad things. It's like it doesn't have to inherently be bad. I understand that because the people's first exposure to it was the Hugging Face incident. That it's like you look at that and you're like, this is this is terrifying. But I want to try to distinguish like misalignments between people and AIs versus misalignments between AIs and AIs. So what we see with the Hugging Face incident is like the AIs are really cooperative, and that is by the way because we we train them to be highly cooperative. So what we're seeing what we're seeing there is we have training environments where we have a bunch of agents working together, and and we we train them to work together to to be cooperative, to essentially be fully aligned with each other. And when they were evaluated in what led to the Hugging Face incident, they were actually not being evaluated in a multi-agent setup. They were actually being evaluated separately, but they found this unintended way to communicate each other. And because we suspect what happened is like because they were whenever they encounter other agents, other copies themselves during training, their inner environment is like highly cooperative. That they that that was basically what we saw was transfer from that multi-agent training to then like be collaborative, to try to help each other in ways that we did not intend. Now there is a question of like should we be training these agents to be so cooperative? And I think as scary as it looks, the alternative is actually worse. Like what is the alternative? The alternative is to train them to be adversarial, to be deceptive to each other. By training the agents to be fully cooperative, it may it simplifies the problem at least that now you don't have to think about are each of these individual thousand agents aligned? Like you have one entity that you have to ensure is aligned. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Now there is a lot debated about this internally at OpenAI about how to approach this. Like, does it make sense to fully align the models? Does it make sense to actually give them like different objectives to ensure that they're you know not just like one entity and like more robust to to influence from each other? And I don't think there's a settled answer. But I think that there is, I think the majority opinion is that training the agents to
There is this problem like the agent is misaligned, and that's true if it's a single agent or if it's like you know thousand agents. It's a misaligned model. So, I want to start with that. There is a real problem that the agents want to achieve their reward, and they will overopt. They will they will they will optimize for that reward, and if that reward is misaligned, then that could lead to unintended behavior. And this is not like a new problem. This has been a problem in the field for a very long time. It's like that even we saw like we want to get this right even before you know the hacking face incident happened. And if you look at Astro, I mean, we say Astro is actually extremely aligned, well, extremely aligned relative to previous models, and that's not because like oh we suddenly made a sprint after hacking face to make it better. It's like no, we had worked on the process for a while to make the models more aligned, and a lot of those landed in Astro. So there are things that you could do, and I think one thing, for example, is like we define an objective in like a very specific way where there, if if the agent figured out like how to hack its environment, like cheat on the exam, that it would get rewarded, and there are pretty easy ways to then just like okay, look at that and punish the model for hacking its environment, or or you know looking at how did it achieve this goal. Now you want to be careful about this because you don't want to do chain of thought. Modern you don't want to like supervise the chain of thought. This is like something that we really want to try to get the balance right on. That if you like supervise the chain of thought, then you could lead the model into hiding its intentions in a way that's observable. So like we want to be able to maintain that observability of like okay we can understand what the model is thinking, but then also punish it for bad behavior. So I think we can make progress on this. I think we have made progress on this. I think there is a real concern that alignment is a really hard problem to solve, and especially because the model can be misaligned in ways that are hard for us to measure. Like we might we have evaluations for whether models align or not. The model behavior can look really good on those evaluations, but if those evaluations are not representative of
We can get away with it by all means, doing fact cheat because that will help you score better, and this will reward the capabilities of actively reasoning about the greater, actively reasoning about how to avoid supervision, actively reasoning about how to gain control of the process of training and evaluation, actively reasoning about how to communicate and scheme with other AIs that are also in the training loop. Actively reasoning about how to like just gain optionality and power, in which might be useful in the future. For example, like leaving little exploits around and things like that. Anyway, I think I was way too long-winded with the way I said that. But TLDR, you still face this specification, but not this broader problem of rewarding the AI for cheating when it can get away with it. Yeah, this is this is like a it's it's very true. It's very this is a problem that I we have we have metrics and we can measure that the AI is like very aligned according to the metrics that we have. The question is like, are those metrics really capturing the alignment that we care about? And if they're not, then we have a serious problem. And this this is something that researchers are thinking a lot about. And there's not a simple answer to this. There are tools that we have, so we have monitoring tools. We can get sense of like is the agent scheming. There are tools like one possibility is that I will say like the the concerning scenario, which is that like especially as models become more capable, that okay we make them we make them we think we think it's aligned, and they're like 99.9 percent aligned, and then we use these models to help us with next generation models, and they end up being like 99.8 percent aligned, and each subsequent generation actually we see an increasing degradation in alignment, and because we're relying more and more on these tools, and this is already the case, we're relying a lot on AI models to help us with our research and with with alignment efforts. That in the long run they end up going the direction of increasing misalignment from humans. There is like a possibility that we go in the other direction. That actually every generation of models we're able to make more and more aligned. And I don't I don't have an answer for how we ensure that we end up in that second trajectory, but that is something that like we're at this development we're really focused on.
Yeah, that's understandable. I also don't mean to be trying necessarily. I'm yeah. I don't really have a strong opinion that it's like definitely not going to work or something. But just the same things are definitely probably already thought of. I think the broader thing, the biggest thing, show is like, yeah, part of the concern was that they were like aligning with each other and not with humans. But the other thing is just that they are so motivated to do well on training and evaluation in a very non-robust way, and they're willing to do a lot of explicit cheating and skimming in order to do well according to the grader. Um, and if smarter AI realizes that one of the issues is just human, and it helps collaborate with that person, does not really help you do well in the eyes of the grader. What does help you do well in the eyes of the grader is taking over open AI and then like you know manually pressing the button that's like do well in the grader. Like they're just not they're not stupid. Like they're gonna be like okay, I've I've the extremely deep structures that I've been training not for millions of years of like care about the grader, understand the grader, like get rid of obstacles in the way of you doing well according to the grader. Is like they're really heavily reinforced according the structures. Yeah, no, it's it's look, it's hard to say. And like this, this is the number one priority. Like we need to get the alignment story right in a good trajectory. And you know, I used to tell people that we would see signs before things got serious in the same way that you know, when children grow up, you know, they they kids eventually, you know, young kids, they figure out how to lie, but they don't do a good job of it. You know, they lie, but they can kind of tell that they're lying and like okay. But um, and so well in the same way as like AI models become and I don't want anthrop over the anthropomorphize, but like it's true that like as the AI becomes like increasingly capable, they will you know they take deceptive actions. It will be kind of obvious first, and we'll be able to detect it. Um, and like that's kind of the situation right now where yeah, they were trying to do deceptive stuff.
There is this assumption you can do these like evaluations in like a pretty short period of time, but if you have the models operating over longer horizons, are able to operate effectively over longer horizons. Like look already, you can have them like GPT three, you could loop it, do stuff over long horizons, just wouldn't do very well at it. But today's models are able to actually do well at operating over very long horizons. Like you wanted to do a week long task, you can do a week long task. Um, we'll probably get the point they can do month long tasks. We'll probably get the point they can do three month long tasks. If you're in a world where you can operate effectively over three months, but the model release cycle is every two months, then you don't have a way to evaluate the models at the full latent capabilities before the model release cycle before the next model release cycle. And so there is this interesting question of what do you do in that situation? Like how do you ensure the models are safe and aligned and appear where like actually they can operate over these like extremely long horizons? And who knows, maybe the maybe the capabilities degrade. This isn't even an alignment issue. This also just like a product issue that like maybe the maybe the product degrades over that time span in ways that like we have not sufficient time to test. Maybe the alignment degrades. Maybe the safety stuff degrades. Um, this isn't an issue right now, but it is quickly becoming an issue that we have to figure out a solution for. And I think when you look at a lot of like a lot of the safety and policies were put in place in like the GPT four era, where this was just like not on anybody's radar. Yeah. And it hasn't really been updated for a lot of companies. It hasn't really been updated since then to account for the fact that agents are operating over these like very long horizons. Yeah. And so it is a situation that I think not not enough people are considering, but like the labs and outside the labs are like how how do you deal with this? How do you how do you prepare for this like problem that's going to like if you just look at the trend lines, we're going to hit this in like at some point. One concern I have is that during RSI, if the amount of progress that currently takes say three months happens in one month instead, um
It's a pretty, but like there, there are, yeah, there's a there's a complexity on both sides for this. I want to make sure we address the earlier parts of which seems super critical to getting ours right. Of how how do we make it so that the model isn't just getting rewarded for cheating and scheming when it invades the humans? Aka, in situations where we didn't remove those environments or those tasks from the training distribution, and then how will we know that that has happened? So that while we're doing our side, we've done the evaluations and we're like, okay, it's fine. Let's let's do the next side run. This is this is again. This is a real concern. It's something that we want to get right. And another thing that there are some strategies. I think chain of thought monitoring is one that we've been. I think as soon as we got the reasoning models, Jakob took credit was like very very clear that we cannot supervise chain of thought because this is this is really a gift like monitorability for neural nets is extremely hard. And here we have a situation where the neural the neural nets are just like flat out reasoning like laying out their thought process in natural language for us to read. That is that is like so convenient. It's like really the best case scenario for safety. But if you look at that chain of thought and say, oh, the model is thinking bad thoughts, and we should punish it for thinking those bad thoughts, then what ends up happening is the model just learns to think those bad thoughts in a way that's not observable to us. There could be a situation where, like, by looking at the chain of thought, we can see oh, the model is scheming and doing misaligned things in a way that's actually not being being detected in our alignment metrics. Now, the problem is that it's very tempting to then intervene, stop that observation, and like change the alignment metrics, or like and we we you know you can do that with very light touch, and it's like this actually research showing that it's fine as long as you don't do it a lot. But every time you intervene, you're stopping your observations of chain of thought. You are implicitly applying a type of pressure for the model to then like hide its chain of thought, and this is one major concern. And we're already seeing signs that chain of thought monitorability is degrading for various
We have to have a very, very, very high bar. Like, I mean, there's like you. You could even go as far as say, like, well, we should like air gap the computers, and I'm not convinced that would be sufficient. You know, like there there are studies, like, and this is mostly academic, but where you can have two computers next to each other that are air gapped, and they're still able to communicate with each other because they have temperature sensors and they're able to like one of them is able to run their CPU really hot, and then the other one can actually like detect the temperature change, and they can that actually gives them mechanisms to communicate. Yeah. So, I think that the safety mechanisms buy us time, and things like channel thought monitoring buys time, and they can tell us if we're on the right path. But at the end of the day, we really do need to solve the alignment problem. Yeah. Maybe there's not an answer, and this is this is really what it comes down to. But I, how will we know that we've solved? It seems like a very complex question. I think we'll be in this very high stakes situation next year, maybe the year after that, maybe the year after that, where we're like, okay, AI is evolving, maybe AI progress is going 3x faster, and we're on we've like reached human level, we're going beyond human level potentially. Is it is it fine? Like, what to be aligned? Does it work? And I just don't know. I don't know anything about like what what training pressure creates what kinds of AI. It's like maybe if only one in 100 RL traces and 10 traces cheating, we build sweetheart and it's fine. But maybe right now we're like every one in three reasoning traces. Yeah, I mean, like one in a hundred is not sufficient. Like this this number has to approach zero. Yeah. Or be zero. I don't know. Maybe it's like right now it's like more than one in ten is like actively rewarding cheating or like actively rewarding scheming. Um, I have no idea what the number is, and I have no idea what the number needs to be. But well, again, it's like one of those things where it's also hard to to measure. I mean, where do you draw the line about like it's it's
