You know, crazy that all this is real. Yeah. Don't you think so? Nothing bad. Like all this AI stuff and all this area, yeah, that it's happening, like, isn't it straight out of science fiction? Yeah, another thing that's crazy is like how normal the takeoff feels. The idea that we're investing one percent of GDP in AI, like, I feel like it would have felt like a bigger deal. You know, we're right now just feels like we get used to things pretty fast. Turns out, yeah, but also it's kind of like abstract. Like, what does it mean? What it means that you see it in the news. Yeah. That such and such company announced such and such dollar amount. Right. That's that's all you see. Right. It's not really felt in any other way so far. Yeah. Should we actually begin here? I think this is an interesting discussion. Sure. I think your point about, well, from the average person's point of view, nothing is that different will continue being true even into the singularity. No, I don't think so. Okay. Interesting. So the thing which I was referring to, not feeling different, is okay. So such and such company announced some difficult to comprehend dollar amount of investment. Right. I don't think anyone knows what to do with that. Yeah. But I think that the impact of AI is going to be felt. AI is going to be diffused through the economy. There are very strong economic forces for this, and I think the impact is going to be felt very strongly. When do you expect that impact? I think the models seem smarter than the economic impact would imply. Yeah. This is one of the very confusing things about the models right now. How to reconcile the fact that they are doing so well on evals, and you look at the evals and you go, those are pretty hard evals. Right. They're doing so well, but the economic impact seems to be dramatically behind, and it's almost like it's it's very difficult to make sense of how can the model on the one hand do this amazing thing, and on the other hand, like repeated self-tries in some situation in a kind of a, an example would be let's say you use Python to do something, and you go to some place and you get a bug, and then you tell the model, can you please fix the bug
I like this idea that the real award-holding is the human researchers who are too focused on the evals. Um, I think there's two ways to understand or to try to think about what you just pointed out. One is look if it's the case that simply by becoming superhuman at coding competition, a model will automatically become more tasteful and exercise better judgment about how to improve your code base. Well, then you should expand this suite of environments such that you're not just testing and having the best performance in coding competition; you should also be able to make the best kind of application for X thing or Y thing or Z thing. Another, maybe this is what you're hinting at, is to say why should it be the case in the first place that becoming superhuman at coding competitions doesn't make you a more tasteful programmer more generally? Maybe the thing to do is not to keep stacking up the amount of environments and the ever-deepening environments to figure out a approach that lets you learn from one environment and improve your performance on something else. So I have I have an analogy, a human analogy, which might be helpful. So even the case, let's take the case of competitive programming, since you mentioned that. And suppose you have two students. One of them, decided they want to be the best competitive programmer, so they will practice ten thousand hours for that domain. They will solve all the problems, memorize all the proof techniques, and be very, very, you know, be very skilled at quickly and correctly implementing all the algorithms. And by doing so, they became the best of the best. Student number two thought, "Oh, competitive programming is cool. Maybe they practice for a hundred hours, much, much less, and they also did really well. Which one do you think is going to do better in their career later on? The second, right? And I think that's basically what's going on. The model's much more like the first student, but even more because then we say, okay, so the model should be good at competitive programming. So let's get every single competitive programming problem ever, and then let's do some data augmentation. So we have even more competitive programming problems, yes, and be trained on that. And so now I got this great competitive programmer, and with this analogy, I think it's more intuitive. I think it's more intuitive with this analogy that, yeah, okay, so if it's so well trained
Making them understand the world better, and so forth. And the other is to think about evolution as doing some kind of search for three billion years, which then results in a human lifetime instance. And then I am curious if you think either of these are actually analogous to pretraining or how would you think about at least what lifetime human learning is like, if not pretraining? I think there are some similarities between both of these to pretraining and pretraining tries to play the role of both of these, but I think there are some big differences as well. The amount of pretraining data is very, very staggering. Yes. And somehow a human being, after even fifteen years with a tiny fraction of pretraining data, they know much less. Yeah. But whatever they do know, they know much more deeply. Somehow, and the mistakes like already at that age, you would not make mistakes that are as make. Yeah. There is another thing you might think would be something like evolution, and then there is maybe, but in this case, I think evolution might actually have an edge. But there is this. I remember reading about this case where some, you know, that one thing that neuroscientists do, or rather, one way in which neuroscientists can learn about the brain, is by studying people with brain damage to different parts of the brain. And and so, and some people have the most strange symptoms you could imagine. It's actually really really interesting. And there was one case that comes to mind that's relevant. I read about this person who had some kind of brain damage that took out, I think, a stroke or an accident that took out his emotional processing, so he stopped feeling any emotion. And as a result of that, you know, he still remained very articulate and he could solve little puzzles and on tests he seemed to be just fine. But he felt no emotion. He didn't feel sad. He didn't feel angry. He didn't feel animated, and he became somehow extremely bad at making any decisions at all. It would take him hours to decide on which socks to wear, and he would make very bad financial decisions. And that's very. What does it say about the role of our built-in emotions in making us like valuable agents essentially? And I guess to connect to your question about pretraining, it's like maybe pre like maybe if you are good enough at like getting everything out of pretraining, you could get you could get that as well,
You don't need to play the whole game to know that what I just did was bad, and therefore whatever, whatever preceded it was also bad. So the value function lets you short circuit the way until the very end. Like, let's suppose that you started to pursue some kind of, okay, let's suppose that you were doing some kind of math thing or programming thing, and you're trying to explore a particular solution direction. And after, let's say, after a thousand steps of thinking, you conclude that this direction is unpromising. As soon as you conclude this, you could already get a reward signal a thousand times previously, when you decided to pursue down this path. You say, "Oh, next time, I shouldn't pursue this path in a similar situation." Long before you actually came up with a proposed solution. This was in the DeepSeek R1 paper, is that the space of trajectories is so wide that maybe it's hard to learn mapping from an intermediate trajectory and value, and also given that you know, encoding, for example, you'll have the wrong idea, then you'll go back, then you'll change something. This sounds like such lack of faith in deep learning. Like, I mean, sure, it might be difficult, but not in deep learning, can do. Yeah. So my expectation is that like value function should be useful and and I fully I fully expect that they will be used in the future, not already. What was I alluding to with the person whose emotional center got damaged is more that maybe what it suggests is that the value function of humans is modulated by emotions in some important way that's hard coded by evolution. And maybe that is important for people to be effective in the world. That that's the thing I was actually going to plan on asking you. There's something really interesting about emotions and value function, which is that it's impressive that they have this much utility while still being rather simple to understand. So, to respond to this, I do agree that compared to the kind of things that we learn and the things we are talking about, the kind of ways we are talking about emotions are relatively simple. They might even be so simple that maybe you could map them out in human understandable way. I think it'll be cool to do. In terms of utility, though, I think there is a thing where you know there is this complexity robustness trade-off, where complex things can be very useful, but simple things are
Scaling recipe. Yes, the big breakthrough of pretraining is the realization that this recipe is good. So you say, hey, if you mix some compute with some data into a neural network of certain size, you will get results, and you will know that it will be better if you just scale the recipe up. And this is also great company's love this because it gives you a very low risk way of investing your resources. Yeah, right. It's much harder to invest your resources in research. Compare that, you know, if you research, you need to have like go for research and research and come up with something, versus get more data, get more compute, you know, get something from pretraining. And indeed, you know, it looks like I based on various things. People say, on some people say, on Twitter, maybe it appears that Gemini have found a way to get more out of pretraining. At some point, the pretraining will run out of data. The data is very clearly finite, and so then okay, what do you do next? Either do some kind of soup up pretraining, different recipe from the one done before, or you do R L, or maybe something else. But now that compute is big, compute is now very big. In some sense, we are back to the age of research. So maybe she is not able to put it up until twenty twenty from twenty fifteen to twenty twelve to twenty twenty. It was the age of research. Now, from twenty twenty to twenty twenty five, it was the age of scaling, or maybe plus minus let's say thirty years, because people say this is amazing. You got to scale more, keep scaling the one word scaling. But now the scale is so big, like is is is the belief really that oh it's so big, but if you had one hundred x more, everything would be so different. Like it would be different for sure, but like is the belief that if you just one hundred x the scale, everything would be transformed? I don't think it's true. So it's back to the age of research again, just with computers. That's very interesting to put it. But let me ask you the question you just posed: What are we scaling, and what would it mean to have a recipe? Because I guess I am not aware of a very clean relationship that almost looks like a law physics, which existed in pretraining, was a power law between data or computer parameters
The thing which I think is the most fundamental is that these models somehow just generalize from radically worse than people. Yes. And it's obvious. That that seems like a very fundamental thing. Okay, so this is the generalization, and there's two sub questions. There's one which is about sample efficiency, which is why should it take so much more data for these models to learn than humans? There's a second about even separate from the amount of data it takes. There's a question of why is it so hard to teach the thing we want to a model than to a human? Which is to say, for to a human, we don't necessarily need a verifiable reward to be able to. You're probably mentoring a bunch of researchers right now, and you're you know talking with them, you're showing them your code, and you're showing them how you think. And from that, they're picking up your way of thinking and how you should do research. You don't have to set like a verifiable reward for them. That's like, okay, this is the next part of the curriculum, and now this is the next part of the curriculum, and oh, was this training was unstable, and we get there's not this sloppy, bespoke process. So perhaps these two issues are actually related in some way, but I'd be curious to explore this this second thing, which feels more like continual learning, and the first thing, which feels just like sample efficiency. Yeah. So you know, you could actually wonder one one possible explanation for the human sample efficiency that needs to be considered is evolution. And evolution has given us a small amount of the most useful information possible, and for things like vision, hearing, and locomotion, I think there's a pretty strong case that evolution actually has given us a lot. So, for example, human dexterity far exceeds me. Robots can become dexterous to a few subjects and do like a huge amount of training in simulation, but to train a robot in the real world to quickly like pick up a new skill like a person does seems very out of reach. Yeah. And here you could say, oh yeah, like locomotion, all our ancestors needed great locomotion skills, like so locomotion maybe like we got like some unbelievable prior. Yeah. You could make the same case for vision. You know, I believe, yeah, like I made the point, oh, like um, children learn to drive after 60
With the environment, um, yeah, it takes much more samples. It seems more unsupervised. It seems more robust, much more robust. The robustness of people is really staggering. Yeah, so it's like, okay, do you have a unified way of thinking about why are all these things happening at once? What is the ML analogy that would that would be that would realize something like this? So, so, so, this is where you know one of the things that you've been asking about is how can you know the teenage driver kind of self-correct and learn from their experience without an external teacher? And the answer is well, they have their value function, right? They have a general sense, which is also, by the way, extremely robust. People like whatever it is the human value function, whatever the human value function is, with a few exceptions around addiction, it's actually very, very robust. And so, for something like a teenage learning to drive, they start to drive, and they already have a sense of how they're driving immediately. How badly they're incompetent, and then they see okay, and they and then of course the the learning speed of an teenager is so fast, after ten hours you're good to go. Yeah, it seems like humans have some solution. I'm curious about, like, well, how are they doing it, and like, why is it so hard to like? How do we need to conceptualize the way we're training models to make something like this possible? You know, that is a great question to ask, and it's a question I have a lot of opinions about. But unfortunately, we live in a world where not not all machine learning ideas are discussed freely, and this this is one of them. So, this is probably a way to do it. I think it can be done. The fact that people are like that, I think it's proof that it can be done. There may be another blocker, though, which is there is a possibility that the human neurons actually do more compute than we think. And if that is true, and if that plays an important role, then things might be more difficult. But regardless, I do think it points to the existence of some machine learning principle that I have opinions on, but unfortunately, certain senses make it hard to to discuss in detail. Nobody listens to this podcast, yeah. Yeah, I'm curious. If you say we are back in the era of
And of course, there is a question of how much compute is needed. But compute is large, so compute is large enough such that it's like not obvious that you need that much more compute to prove some idea. Like I'll give you an analogy. AlexNet was built on two GPUs. That was the total amount of compute used for it. The Transformer was built on eight to sixty-four GPUs. No single Transformer paper experiment used more than sixty-four GPUs of twenty seventeen, which would be like what two GPUs of today. So the ResNet, right? Many, like even the the you could argue that the like all one reasoning was not the most compute-heavy thing in the world. So there's definitely for for research, you need like definitely some amount of compute. But it's far from obvious that you need the absolute largest amount of compute ever for research. You might argue, and I think it is true, that if you want to build the absolute best system, if you want to build the absolute best system, then it helps a much more compute, and especially if everyone is within the same paradigm, then compute becomes one of the big differentiators. Yeah, I guess well, it was possible to develop these ideas. I'm asking you for this reason because you're actually there. I'm not sure what actually happened, but it sounds like it was possible to develop these ideas using many amounts of compute. But it wasn't the Transformer that immediately became famous. It became the thing everybody started doing, and then started experimenting on top of and building on top of because it was validated at higher and higher levels of compute, correct? And if you at SSI have fifty different ideas, how will you know which one is the next Transformer and which one is, you know, brittle, without having the kind of compute that other frontier labs have? So I can I can comment on that, which is the short comment is that you know you mentioned that SSI specifically for us the amount of compute that SSI has for research is really not that small, and I want to explain why. Like simple math can explain why the amount of compute that we have is actually a lot more comparable for research than one might think. Now, explain. So SSI has raised three billion dollars, which is like not small, but it's like a lot by any absolute sense. But you could say, but look at the other companies raising much more. But a lot of what their a lot of their compute goes for
Affected by the day-to-day market competition, but I think there are two reasons that may cause us to change the plan. One is pragmatic; if timelines turn out to be long, which they might. And second, I think there is a lot of value in the best and most powerful AI being out there impacting the world. Yeah, I think this is a meaningful, valuable thing. But then, so why is your default plan to straight shot superintelligence? Because it sounds like you know OpenAI and all these other companies—they're explicit thinking is look, we have weaker and weaker intelligences that the public can get used to and prepare for. And why is it potentially better to build superintelligence directly? So I'll make the case for and against. Yeah, the case for is that you are. So one of the challenges that people face when they're in the market is that they have to participate in the race, and the race is quite difficult, and that it exposes you to too to difficult trade-offs which need to make. And there is it is it is nice to say we'll insulate ourselves from all this and just focus on the research and come out only when we are ready and not before. But the counterpoint is valid too, and those those opposing forces. The counterpoint is: Hey, it is useful for the world to see powerful AI. It is useful for the world to see powerful AI because that's the only way you can communicate it. Well, I guess not even just that you can communicate the idea, but communicate the AI, not the idea. Communicate the AI. But mean communicate the. Okay, so let's suppose you read an essay about AI. Yeah, and the essay says AI is going to be this, and AI is going to be that, and it's going to be this. Yeah, and you read it and say, "Okay, this is interesting to say. " Right. Now suppose you see an AI doing this, an AI doing that. It is incomparable. Like basically, I think I think that there is a big benefit from AI being in the public, and that would be a reason for us to not be quite straight shot. Yeah, well, I guess it's not even that, but I do think that is important part of it. The other big thing is I can't think of another discipline in human engineering research where the artifact was made safer mostly through just thinking about how to make it safer, as opposed to why
Term that existed, and the term is narrow AI. If you go back to ancient history of game playing AI, of checker AI, chess AI, computer games AI, everyone would say, "Look at this narrow intelligence. Sure, the chess AI can beat Caspero, but it can't do anything else. It's so narrow, artificial narrow intelligence." So in response to this, some people said, "Well, this is not good. It is so narrow. What we need is general AI, general AI, AI that can just do all the things." The second and and that term just got a lot of traction. Yeah. The second thing that got a lot of traction is pretraining, specifically the recipe of pretraining. I think the current the way people do AI now is maybe um, undoing the conceptual imprint of pretraining, but pretraining had the property: you do more pretraining, and the model gets better at everything more or less uniformly. Yeah. General AI, pretraining gives AGI, but the thing that happened with AGI and pretraining is that in some sense the overshoot the target because by the kind if you think about the term AGI, you will realize, especially in the context of pretraining, you will realize that the human being is not an AGI. Because a human being, yes, it there is definitely a foundation of skills. A human being, a human being lacks a huge amount of knowledge. Instead, we rely on continual learning. We rely on continual learning, and so when you think about the case, so let's suppose that we achieve success and we produce a safe super, some kind of safe super intelligence. The question is, but how do you define it? Where on the curve of continual learning is going to be? I produce like a super intelligent fifteen year old that's very eager to go and is okay. I'm going to, they don't know very much at all. The great student, very eager. You go and be a programmer. You go and be a doctor. Go and learn. So you could imagine that the deployment itself involves some kind of learning trial and error period. It's a process, as opposed to you drop the finished thing. Okay, I see. So you're you're suggesting that the thing you're pointing at with super intelligence is not some finished mind which knows how to do everything all job in the economy, because the way say the original, I think, open AI or whatever defines
I think the idea of very rapid economic growth for some time, I think it's very possible from broad the point. The question is how rapid it's going to be. So I think this is hard to know because on the one hand you have this very efficient worker, on the other hand there is the world is really big and there is a lot of stuff, and that stuff moves at different speed. But on the other hand, now the AI could, you know. So I think very rapid economic growth is possible, and we will see like all kinds of things, like different countries with different rules, and the ones which have different rules, economic growth will be faster. Hard to predict. It seems to me that this is a very precarious situation to be in, where looking the limit, we know that this should be possible because if you have something that is as good as a human at learning, but which can merge its brains, merge their different instances in a way that humans can't merge. Already, this seems like a thing that should physically be possible. Humans are possible, digital computers are possible. You just need both of those combined to produce this thing. And also, seems like this kind of thing is extremely powerful, and economic growth is one way to put it. I mean, that seems to be a lot of economic growth, but another way to put it is just like you will have potentially a very short period of time because a human on the job can, you know, you you hire people less than six months are like not productive probably, right? A human like learns really fast, and this thing is becoming smarter and smarter very fast. What is? How do you think about making that go well, and why is AI positioned to do that well? What is AI's plan there? Basically, is what I am trying to ask. Yeah. So one of the one of the ways in which my thinking has been changing is that I now place more importance on AI being deployed incrementally and in advance. One very difficult thing about AI is that we are talking about systems that don't yet exist, and it's hard to imagine them. I think that one of the things that's happening is that in practice, it's very hard to feel AGI. It's very hard to feel AGI. We can talk about it, but it's like it's like talking about like the long future. Like imagine like having a conversation about like how is it like to be old, when you
Three years ago, that such a thing will happen. I also maintain that as AI continues to become more powerful, more visibly powerful, there will also be a desire from governments and the public to do something. And I think that this is a very important force of showing the AI. That's number one. Number two. Okay, so then the AI has been built. What needs to What needs to be done? So one thing that I maintain that will happen is that right now people who are working on AI, I maintain that that AI doesn't feel powerful because of its mistakes. I do think that at some point the AI will start to feel powerful, actually. And I think when that happens, we will see a big change in the way all AI companies approach safety. They'll become much more paranoid. I think I I say this is a predict as a as a as a prediction that we will see happen. We'll see from right, but I think this is something that will happen because they will see the AI becoming more powerful. Everything that's happening right now, I maintain, is because people look at today's AI, and it's hard to imagine the future AI. And there is a third thing which needs to happen, and I think this is this this and I'm talking about it in in broader terms, not just from the perspective of AI, because you asked me about our company. But the question is okay. So then, what should what should the company aspire to build? Yeah, what should they aspire to build? And there has been one big idea that actually every that every one has been locked in locked into, which is the the self-proving AI. And why why did this happen? Because there is fewer ideas and companies, but I maintain that there is something that's better to build, and I think that everyone will actually want that. It's like the AI that's robustly aligned to care about sentient life specifically. I think, in particular, it will be this case to be made that it will be easier to build an AI that cares about sentient life than an AI that cares about human life alone, because the AI itself will be sentient. And if you think about things like mirror neurons and human empathy for animals, which is you know you might argue it's not big enough, but it exists. I think it's an emergent property from the fact that we model others with the same circuit that we use to model ourselves, because that's the most efficient thing to
I think that if the cluster is big enough, like if the cluster is literally continental sized, that thing could be really powerful, indeed. Right? If you literally have a continental sized cluster, like those those eyes can be very powerful. And I, all I can tell you is that if you are talking about extremely powerful eyes, like truly dramatically powerful, then it would be nice if they could be restrained in some ways, or if there was some kind of a government or something. Because I think that if you are saying hell, like if if you really like what what is the the concern of superintelligence? What is one way to explain the concern? If you imagine a system that is sufficiently powerful, like really sufficiently powerful, and you could say, okay, you need to do something sensible, like care for sentient life, let's say in a very single-minded way, we might not like the results. That's really what it is, and so maybe by the way, the answer is that you do not build a single you do not build an intelligent in the usual sense, and actually I point I point several things out. I think human beings are a semi-intelligent, you know, the pursuit of reward and then the emotions, whatever make us tired of the reward pursuit. If reward, the market is like kind; it's like a very short-sighted kind of agent. Evolution is the same. Evolution is very intelligent in some ways, but very dumb in other ways. The government is designed to be a never-ending fight between three parts, which has an effect. So, I think things like this. Another thing that makes the discussion difficult is that we are talking about systems that don't exist, that we don't know how to build. Right, that's the other thing, and that's actually my belief. I think what people are doing right now will go some distance and then peter out. It will continue to improve, but it will also not be it. So the it we don't know how to build, and I think that a lot hinges on understanding reliable generalization. Now, say another thing, which is like you know, one of the things that you could say is what that causes alignment to be difficult is that human that it's it's um your ability to learn human beings is fragile. Then your ability to optimize them is fragile. You will actually don't optimize them, and I can't just say are these not all instances of one reliable generalization? Why is
And so I think that for the long run, equilibrium. One approach, you could say, okay, maybe every person will have an AI to do their bidding, and that's good. And if that could be maintained, definitely that's true. But the downside with that is, okay, so then the AI goes and like, earn earn earn, you know, earns money for for the person, and you know, educates for their needs in like the political sphere, and maybe then writes a report saying, okay, here's what, that here's the situation, and the person is great, keep it up. But the person is no longer participant, and then you can say that's a precarious place to be in. But so I'm going to preface by saying I don't like the solution, but it is a solution, and the solution is people become part AI with some kind of neuralink plus plus, because what will happen as a result is that now the AI understands something, and we understand too, because now the understanding is transmittable. So now the AI is in some situation. Now it's like you are involved in the situation yourself fully, and I think this is the answer to the equilibrium. I wonder if the fact that emotions, which were developed millions or many cases billions of years ago in a totally different environment, are still guiding our actions so strongly, is an example of alignment success. To maybe spell out what I mean, the brainstem has these. I don't know if it's the right word to call it a value function or reward function, but the brainstem has a directive of saying, make with somebody who's more successful. The cortex is the part that understands what does success mean in the modern context, but the brainstem is able to align the cortex and say, however you recognize success to be, and I'm not smart enough to understand what that is, you're still going to pursue this directive. I think I think there is. So I think it's a more general point. I think it's actually really mysterious how the brain encodes high level desires. Sorry, how evolution encodes high level desires. Like it's pretty easy to understand how evolution would would endow us with the desire for food that smells good, because smell is a chemical, and so just producing that chemical, it's very easy to imagine such and make evolution doing such a thing. But evolution also hasn't hasn't endowed us with all these social desires, like
That's like a big chunk of the brain does. That's all I am claiming. I can tell you, like, a speculation. I was wondering how it could be done, and let me offer a speculation, and then explain why the speculation is probably false. So, the speculation is okay. So, the brain—it's like the brain has those regions. You know the brain regions. We are cortex, right? Yeah. You know all the brain regions, and the cortex is uniform, but the brain regions and and and neurons in the cortex—they kind of speak to their neighbors mostly, and that explains why the brain regions. Because if you want to do some kind of speech processing, all the neurons that do speech need to talk to each other, and they can and because neurons can only speak to their nearby neighbors for the most part, it has to be a region. All the regions are mostly located in the same place from person to person, so maybe evolution hard coded literally the location on the brain. So it says all like when when like you know, the GPS of the brain, GPS coordinates such when that fires, that's what you care about. But maybe that's evolution did because that would be within the toolkit of evolution. Yeah, although there are examples where, for example, people who are born blind have that area of their cortex adopted by another sense, and I have no idea, but I'd be surprised if the desires or the reward functions which required visual signal no longer worked. You know, people who have their areas of their cortex co-opted, for example, if you no longer have vision, can you still feel the sense that I want people around me to like me and so forth? Which usually there is also visual cues for. So I actually fully agree with that. I I think there is an even stronger counter argument to this theory, which is if you think about people, so there are people who get half of their brain removed in childhood, and still have all their brain regions, but they all somehow move to just one hemisphere, which suggests that the brain regions, the the location is not fixed, and so that theory is not true. It would have been cool if it was true, but it's not, and so I think that's a mystery, but it's an interesting mystery. Like the fact is, somehow evolution was able to endow us to care about social stuff very reliably, and even people who have like all kinds of strange mental conditions and deficiencies
To making super intelligence go well, the the main thing that distinguishes AI is its technical approach. So we have a different technical approach that I think is worthy, and we are pursuing it. I maintain that in the end, there will be a convergence of strategies. So I think there will be a convergence of strategies where, at some point, as they become more powerful, it's going to become more or less clear to everyone what the strategy should be, and it should be something like yeah, you need to find some way to talk to each other, and you want your first actual real super intelligence AI to be aligned and somehow be, you know, careful, simple, like careful people, democratic, one of those some combination of the two, and I think this is the condition that everyone should strive for, and that's what the AI is striving for, and I think that this time is not already all the companies realizing that striving towards the same thing, and we'll see. I think that the world will truly change. They become more powerful, yeah, and I think a lot of these forecasts will, like, I think things will be really different, and people will react in really differently. What is your forecast? What are your forecasts to this? This super intelligent learner, as well as a human, and especially as we're all becoming superhuman, I think like fast twenty, thirty years. So I just want to unravel your how you might see the world coming. It's like, we have a couple more years where these other companies are continuing the current approach and it's stalled out, and stalled out here meaning they earn no more than, low hundreds of billions in revenue. How do you think about stalling out means? Yeah, I think the I think it could I think it could stall out, and I think stalling out will look like it will all look very similar. Yeah, among all the different companies, something like this. I'm not sure because I think I think I think even with I think even I think even with stalling out, I think this company could make us to bend us to bend the revenue, maybe not profits, because they will be it will be they will need to work hard to differentiate each other from themselves, but revenue definitely. But there's something your model implies that when the correct solution does emerge, there will be convergence between all the companies. And I'm curious why you think that's the case. Well, I was talking more about convergence
And so, I think, from the market perspective, I think something similar will happen there as well. Even if somewhat, so can we are talking about the good world, by the way. Where what's the good world? What's the good world? Where you have these powerful human-like learners that also like, and by the way, maybe there is another thing we haven't discussed on the on the spec of the super intelligent AI that I think is worth considering. Is it making it narrow? Can be useful when narrow at the same time. So you can have lots of narrow super intelligent AIs, but suppose you have many of them, and you have some, and you have some company that's producing a lot of profits from it, and then you have another company that comes in and starts to compete, and the way the competition is going to work is through specialization. Like, I think what's going to happen is that the way competition, like competition, loves specialization, and you see in the market, you see it in evolution as well. So you are going to have lots of different niches, and you are going to have lots of different companies who are occupying different niches in in this kind of world. We might say, yeah, like one AI company is really quite bit better at some area of really complicated economic activity, and a different company is better in another area, and the third company is really good at litigation. But is this is not directed by what human-like learning implies? Is that like can learn? It can, but but you have a human-like learning, you have a big investment, you spend a lot of compute to become really, really, really good, really phenomenal at the same, and someone else spends a huge amount of compute and a huge amount of expense to get really, really good at some other thing, right? You apply a lot of human learning to get there, but now look, you are you are at this high point, where someone else would say, look, like I want to start learning what you learned. I guess that would require many different companies to begin that human-like continual learning at the same time, so that they can start their different research in different branches. But if one company, you know, gets ahead in first or gets ahead learner first, it does then seem like, well, you know, like we we just think about every single job in the economy, you just have instance learning. Each one seems tractable for. Yeah
Kind of thinking with all of us. I would say there are two things to say. I would say that the reason why self-play was interesting is because it offered a way to create models using compute only without data. Right, and if you think that data is ultimately the bottleneck, then using compute only is very interesting. So that's what makes it interesting. Now the the thing is that self-play at least the way it was done in the past, when you have agents which somehow compete with each other, it's only good for developing certain set of skills. It is too narrow. It's only good for like negotiation, conflict, certain social skills, strategies in that kind of stuff. And so if you care about those skills, then self-play will be useful. Now actually, I think that self-play did find the home, but just in a different form. In a different form, so things like debate, proof verifier, you have some kind of an LLM as a judge, which is also incentivized to find mistakes in your work. You could say this is not exactly self-play, but this is you know related to the serial setup that people are doing. I believe and really self-play is an example of is a special case of more general like competition between between agents, right? The response, the natural response to competition is to try to be different. And so if you were to put multiple agents and you tell them, you know, you all need to work on some problem, and you're an agent, and you're inspecting what the analysis working, you're going to say, well, if they already taken this approach, it's not clear I should pursue it. I should pursue something different. And so I think that something like this could also create an incentive for a adversarial approach. Yeah. Final question: What is research taste? Obviously, the person in the world who is considered to have the best taste in doing research AI, you are the co-author on many of the biggest, the biggest things that have happened in the history of AI, from AlexNet to GPT three to so on. What is it that? How do you characterize how you come up with these ideas? I can answer. So I can comment on this for myself. I think different people do it differently. But one thing that guides me personally is an aesthetic of how AI should be by thinking about how people are, but thinking correctly. Like it's very easy to think about how people are incorrectly
