All right, this is the episode where we're going to teach us new conductors. Also, the send off for this this current set. It's yeah, you you know after you use it, I'm like I can't use it again. I gotta get out of here. Okay, Dylan is the the seminarist. Dylan, the burning question I have for you: If you add up the big four Amazon, Meta, Google, Microsoft, the combined forecasted capex you published recently this year is 600 billion dollars. And given you know your yearly price of renting that compute, that would be like close to 50 gigawatts. Now this year we're not putting on 50 gigawatts this year, so presumably it's being for compute that is going to be coming online over the coming years. So I have a question about what, how to think about the timeline around when that capex comes online. Similar question for the labs, where you know OpenAI just announced they raised 110 billion dollars, and Dropbox just announced they raised 30 billion dollars. And if you look at the compute that they have coming online this year, you should tell me how much it is like. Is it is another 4 gigawatts total that they'll have this year? If it was like the cost to rent the compute that OpenAI and Dropbox have this year to access their compute spend at you know 10, 13 billion dollars a gigawatt, those individual raises alone are like enough to cover their compute spend for the year. And then this is not even including the revenue that they're going to earn this year. So help me understand first, when is the time scale when the big tech capex is actually coming online, and to what are the labs raising all this money for? Like the the yearly price of one gigawatt data center is like 13 billion dollars. So when you talk about the capex of the hyperscalers, right, on the order of 600 billion dollars, and you look at the cost of the supply chain gets you to on the order of trillion dollars. A portion of this is you know immediately for compute going online this year, right? The chips and the the the other parts of capex that do get paid this year. But there's a lot of set up capex as well, right? So when we have when we're talking about 20 gigaw
Amazon, whereas you know at least historically, minded the biggest companies in the world. Now Microsoft, now they're expanding across the supply chain and going to other players that are newer. OpenAI has been, you know, a bit more aggressive and going to many players to have tons of capacity from Microsoft, they have Google and Amazon as well, but they also have like tons of Corey, Oracle, and they've gone to like random companies or you know, one thing random companies like SoftBank Energy, who's never built a data center in their life, but you know they're building data centers now for OpenAI, so they've gone to and and and many others like Enscape and others that they're going and getting capacity from, and so there's this like. Contrary and throppic because they were so conservative on compute, because they don't want to go crazy, right? And in some sense, a lot of the financial freakouts in the second half of last year were like, OpenAI signed all these deals, but don't have the money to pay for them. Okay, Oracle stocks gonna tank. Okay, Corey stocks gonna tank. Okay, like you know all these companies stocks tanks, and credit markets went crazy because people like the end buyers can't pay for this. Now it's like oh wait they raised a ton of money okay they can pay for it, but in the sense Enthropic was a lot more conservative like we'll sign contracts we'll be principal and we'll purposely undershoot what we think we can possibly do and be conservative because we don't want to potentially go bankrupt. The thing I'm understanding is so what what does it mean to have to acquire compute in a pinch? Is it that you have to go with like neo clouds? Is it that they have worse computers? Like in what ways are worse? And is it that you have to pay gross margins to a operator that you wouldn't otherwise have to pay to because you're coming in the last minute? Who built this bare capacity such that it's available for Enthropic and OpenAI to get last minute? Then like basically what is the concrete advantage that OpenAI has gotten? If they end up at similar compute numbers by 2027, is it just like they're gonna end this year with different gigawatts? So how many gigawatts is Enthropic and OpenAI gonna have by the end of this year? Yeah, so to to acquire excess compute,
And dropping the capabilities here for revenue, that's interesting. Like that's this, you know, because otherwise, we're like, well, having the best model is extremely depreciating asset. That you know, three months later, you don't have the best model. But like, the reason it's important is that you can sign these deals and lock in the compute and advance get better prices. Isn't this also an implication? And maybe this is an obvious point, but there's at least until recently, people had made this huge point about oh, what is the depreciation cycle of a GPU? And the bears, the Michael Burry's or whatever, said, look, people are saying that four or five years for these GPUs, and in fact, if you maybe it's because the technology is improving so fast or whatever, in fact, it makes sense to have two year depreciation cycles for these GPUs, which increases the sort of like the amortized cap back in a given year, and so makes it maybe financially less lucrative to building all these clouds. But in fact, your point is like maybe the depreciation cycle is even longer than five years because we're using Hopper, and then especially AI really takes off in twenty thirty, where like fuck, we got to like get the seven nanometer fabs up, and we got to like we got to get the A one hundred, like return the A one hundred again. Then it's actually the depreciation cycle is incredibly long, and so I think that's an interesting financial implication of yeah. What are you saying? There's a few strings to pull on there. One is what happens to depreciation of GPUs, right? And and I guess I didn't answer your prior question, which is like, and dropping, I think we'll be able to get to like five gigawatts is maybe a little bit more by the end of the year through themselves as well as their product being served through Bedrock or through Vertex or through Foundry. I think they'll be able to get to five or six gigawatts, which is way above their like initial plans, right? Right. You know, and and anyway, that's that's sort of like and and open now will be a little roughly the same, maybe a little higher, actually a little bit higher based on our numbers, but anyway, the depreciation cycle of a GPU, right? Michael Burry was saying it's you know three years or or less, right? Is like sort of his argument
More tokens per GPU of five point four than if you ran for GP four on it, right? So, so in some sense, it's producing more tokens of the model that is of higher quality. Interesting. And so, in some sense, you know obviously GP four, what is the maximum time for its tokens? You know, maybe maybe it's a few billion dollars, maybe it's tens of billions of dollars adoption takes time for GP five point four. That number is probably north of a hundred billion, but there's an adoption lag and there's competition. Other people are getting it, and there's the constant improvement that everyone else is having. So if if improvements stop, you know here the value of H one hundred is now predicated on the value that GP five point four can get out of it instead of the value that GP four can get out of it, and the margins and all that stuff that these labs are doing and their competitive environment, so their margins can't go to infinity. Yeah. So you sort of have this like dynamic that is quite interesting in that, and H one hundred is worth more today than it was three years ago. That's crazy. And it's also interesting from the perspective of like, just take that forward. If you if we had actual AI models developed, we had like genuinely human on a server, a human like on a flop basis, H one hundred. These are such a maybe numbers about how many flops can the brain do, but on a flop basis, H one hundred is estimated to one hundred fifty. It's like how much some people estimate the human brain has flops. Obviously, in terms of memory, the human brain has way more. H one hundred is like eighty gigabytes, and brain might have petabytes. Oh yeah, you've got petabytes. Name, name, petabyte of ones, zero, name, mystery. But this is actually the point, like actually, no, we've just got the best sparse attention techniques. We have genuinely, right? Like, like in the sort of like amount of information that's compressed, maybe petabytes, but like the actual, like this, you know, extremely sparse memory. Imagine if we had a human knowledge worker can produce six figures a year of value, and if H one hundred can produce something close to that, if we had actual human on a server, the value of H one hundred is like it can repay itself in the course of like a couple of months
So, or it's like the very best model, rather than a model that's slightly worse, right? So, the hopper went from two to three dollars, and a hopper can make a million tokens. Opus and it can make two million tokens of Sonnet. The price differential between Opus and Sonnet has decreased because the price of the GPU has increased by a dollar from exactly. Interesting, I think that makes a ton of sense. Also, I think we just see all the volumes are on the best models today, all the revenues on the best models today, and in a compute limited world, there is sort of two things that happen, right? A companies have locked up, you know, and don't have commitment issues, you know, these five year contracts for compute. They've kind of locked in a humongous margin advantage because they've locked in compute for five years at a price of what it transacted five years ago or three years ago or two years ago, whatever it is. Whereas, if you are now three years into that five year contract, and someone else is two year contract or three year contract rolled off, and now you are trying to buy that at you know modern pricing, when you are priced to the value of models, the price is going to be up a lot more. And so, in a sense, like the person who committed early has better margins in general, and the percentage of the market that is long term contracts is much larger than the percentage of the market in short term contracts that can be this sort of flex capacity that you add at the last second. And at the same time, right? So, where does the margin go, right? Because models get more valuable. How much can the cloud players flex their pricing? Well, in fact, like if you look at Core i, their average term duration is like over three years right now, and for like ninety percent plus of their compute, so over three years, and so they end up with this like incremental like well, they can't actually flex price, but every year they're adding incrementally way more capacity than they had previously, right? This year alone, right, Meta's adding as much capacity as they had in the entire fleet of compute and data centers for all purposes for serving WhatsApp and Instagram, Facebook in twenty twenty two and doing that, right? They're adding that alone this year. So, in the same sense, you know, you talk about Meta doing that
Going to be TPU seven, other accelerators potentially, and why is TSMC just giving it all up to Nvidia rather than you know trying to fracture the market? Yes, I think there's a couple like points here, right? On three nanometer, you know, if we go back to last year, the vast majority of three nanometer was Apple. Right, Apple is being moved to two nanometer. Memory prices are going up, so Apple's volumes may go down, right? Because as memory prices go up, they have to either they cut margin or they move move on, you know. There's some timeline because of long term contracts, but basically, Apple likely reduces demand slash moves to two nanometer faster. Where two nanometers only capable of sort of mobile chips today, um, and in the future, AI chips will move there. So sort of Apple has that, and then Apple's also talking to third party vendors because they're getting squeezed out of TSMC a little bit, um, because TSMC's margins on high performance computing HPC AI chips that are is higher than it is for mobile, um, because they have a bigger advantage mobile in terms of HPC than they do in mobile. But anyway,s when you look at what what's TSMC running calculus here, actually, they're providing really good um allocations to companies that are doing CPUs, right? So when you think about hey, Amazon has Trainium and Amazon has uh Graviton, both of those are on three nanometer Graviton being their CPUs, Trainium being their AI chip. They're actually TSMC's much more excited about allocation to Graviton than they are to Trainium because they view CPU business as more stable long term growth, right? And as a company that is conservative and doesn't want to ride cycles of growth too hard, you actually want to allocate to the the market that is more stable and lower growth rate first before you allocate all the incremental capacity to the fast growth rate market. Now, that is that is the H generality. So when you look at like hey, same for AMD, right? The allocations they get on um you know their CPUs is like TSMC's much more excited about those than they are for GPUs, um like was for Amazon and Nvidia, um is is unique because yes they have CPUs, yes they make switches, yes they make networking, um they make NVLink, they make all these different NVIDIA and
Google sold I think a million worth of the fabs to Anthropic, and you are saying in general t here is just the big bottleneck right now this year next year. I mean, I guess going forward for a while now is gonna be the the you know logic memory stuff that like it takes building chips. And Google has Deep Mind, this is their their prominent AI lab. And if this is the big bottleneck, why would they sell it rather than just giving to Deep Mind, right? So, so this is again like a problem of like you know Deep Mind people like this isn't saying why to do this, right? But then Google Cloud people and Google executives saw a different like thought process, right? And basically, you know, you and I know the compute team. T here is one guy from you know both of them actually came from Google at the main people on the compute team at Anthropic they saw this location, they negotiated a deal, and they were able to get access to these to this compute before Google realized. And so, actually, the chain of events at least from our data that we found was in in early Q three we saw over the course of two over the course of like six weeks we we saw capacity on Anthropic, sorry, on TPUs go up by a significant amount over the course of those six weeks. It went up like multiple times in those six weeks, right? There were multiple requests. Google even had to go to TSMC and explain to them why they needed this increasing capacity because it was so sudden. But that a lot of that capacity increase was for selling to Anthropic, yeah, because Anthropic saw it before Google, and then Google had their billion in Gemini three, which caused their user metrics to skyrocket. And leaders at Google was like, "Oh," and then they started making the statement, "We have to double compute every six months." I don't remember the exact number that they said, but they they really woke up a lot more. And then they're like, "Oh, hey TSMC, we want more, we want more," and it's like, "Well, sorry guys, we're sold out for next year. We can work on next year, maybe we get like five ten percent more for twenty six, but really we're gonna work on twenty seven, right?" Is sort of like you know, t here is this like information asymmetry of the labs in my mind, right? I don't know
Manufacturing of chips, and so there's been some sliding of capacity across, you know, mobile or PC to data center chips, but that's been so flungable. Whereas, um, and whereas cost and power in data centers have sort of had to start a new a supply chain. But now there's sort of no more capacity for the mobile and PC industry, which used to be the majority of semiconductor industry, to shift over to AI, right? Nvidia is now the largest customer, TSMC and Nvidia is the largest customer. I say HiNext, the largest memory manufacturer. So it's sort of impossible for this scaling or this sliding of resources away from the common person, right? PCs and and smartphones to shift any more towards the AI chips, and so now how do we scale the AI chip production? And that's the biggest bottleneck as we go to 2030. Is those would be very interesting if there is an absolute gigawatt ceiling that you can project out to 2030 based just on hey we can't produce more than this many EUV machines, right? So to scale compute further, there's some different bottlenecks this year and next year, but ultimately by 28, 29, the bottleneck falls to the lowest rung on the supply chain, which is ASML, right? ASML makes the world's most complicated machine, i. E. EUV tool, um, and the selling price for those is 300, 400 million dollars. And currently they can make about 70. Next year they get 80, even under very aggressive supply chain expansion, they only get a little bit over 100 by the end of the decade. And so what does that mean? Okay, they can make 100 of these tools by the end of the decade, and um, you know, 70 right now. How does that actually translate to AI compute? Right, we we see all these numbers from ASML and and many others across the supply chain, gigawatts, gigawatts, gigawatts, right? How many gigawatts are we adding? Um, and we see, you know, Elon saying, hey, the 100 gigawatts in space a year, a year, right? The the problem with any of uh these numbers, the challenge to these numbers is, you know, actually not the power, not
AI value into the supply chain is held up by this one point two billion dollars worth of tooling that simply just cannot expand the supply chain quickly. In fact, those even the intermediate layers are sort of shocking here. So, Carl Zeiss, which is like the optics supplier that is modeling ASML itself, I checked the market cap this morning. You know what it is? Two point five billion dollars. Let's let's let's be let's be it. And I think so. You you you start to go recently. You are saying over the last three years, TSMC has done one hundred billion dollars of capex, so it's like thirty, thirty, forty. And if you think about, I mean, a small fraction of that is sort of like being used by Nvidia for the three nanometer that is going, or you know, previous four nanometer that they're using for chips. But Nvidia is turning that into what was what what was like earnings last quarter was forty billion, and it's forty billion times four, so one hundred sixty billion dollars. So Nvidia alone is turning some small fraction of a hundred billion in capex is going to be depreciated over many years, not just this one year. It's a hundred sixty billion dollars in a single year, and then it gets even more intense and it goes down the supply chain to ASML, but it's taking a billion dollars of machines to produce a gigawatt, and of course those machines last more than a year, right? So it's it's doing more than that. Okay, so now I want to understand. Okay, well, how many such machines will there be by twenty thirty if you include not just the ones that are sold that year, but are have been compiling over the previous years? And what does that imply about the ASML says he wants to do a gigawatt a week in twenty thirty? Are are when you add up those numbers, is that compatible with that? Right, that's completely compatible, right? Because think about TSMC and the entire ecosystem has something two fifty to three hundred EV tools already, and then you stack on. This year, next year, going to one hundred by twenty thirty, you are like seven hundred EV tools by the end of the decade. Seven hundred EV tools, three and a half tools per gigawatt. Assuming it's all allocated to AI, which it's not, but three and a half tools per gigawatt gets you
Let's let the price go up, right? Because they can. The margin is there. You can you can take the margin. Like Nvidia takes the margin. Memory players are taking the margin. ASML has never risen the price more than they increased the capability of the tool, and so in a sense, they've always provided benefit to their customer. It's not that the tool is stagnant; it's just that, like you know, these tools are old. Yes, you can upgrade them. Um, and the new tools are coming. And for simplicity's sake, we're kind of ignoring, you know, advances for the podcast. Advances overlayer through per tool. So you say we're producing sixty of these machines this year, and then seventy eighty over subsequent years. What would happen if ASML decides to double its capex or triple its capex? What is preventing them from producing more than one hundred in twenty thirty Why Why is so confident that even five years out, you can be relatively sure what their production will be? So I think I think a couple factors here. Right, ASML has not decided to just go yo. Let's expand capacity as fast as possible, right? Um, in general, the semiconductor supply chain has not right. It's lived through the boom and bust, and we can talk about more about it, but basically, no one, you know, some players have very recently have like broken out, but in general, no one really sees demand for two hundred gigawatts a year, ah, chips, or you know, trillions of dollars of spend a year in the semiconductor supply chain. They're just like they're not they're not AI built, right? They're not. We're going to get to trillions of dollars this year. Yeah, I I I feel you would say like no one really understands this in the supply chain. Um, constantly we're told our numbers are way too high, and then when they're right, they're like oh yeah, but your your next year's numbers are still too high, and it's like but anyway, ASML has sort of their tools four major components, right? Has um the source, right, which is made by Symantec, um has the um radical stage, which is made in Wilmington, uh, Connecticut, right? Has the wafer stage, um, and the um the optics, right, the lenses and such, and those two are made in Europe, right
You know, you know sort of like mechanical engineering, optical engineering, because you have to line all these things and make sure they're perfect. All these things have crazy amounts of metrology because you have to perfectly test everything because if anything is messed up, the yield goes to zero, right? Because it's such a finely tuned system. And by the way, you it's so large that you are building it in all these you are building in the factory in Heindhoven, Netherlands, and then deconstructing it and shipping it on many planes to the customers' site, and then you are reassembling it there and testing it again. And that process takes many, many months. Like it's it's just t here is so many steps in the supply chain, right? Whether it's Dyson making their lenses and projection optics, or Symer which is an ASML company making the EUVs, and each these has its own complex supply chain, right? ASML commented their supply chain has over ten thousand people in it, right? Like individual suppliers. Yes, and and might not be directly; it might be through like, hey, you know, Dyson has so many suppliers, and you know, ASML company has so many suppliers, but you know, they these you know, if you think about like, okay, you are talking about two physically moving objects that are like this large and this large, you know, the size of a wafer, right? And it has to be accurate to the level of you know single digit nanometers or even smaller because the entire system, the overlay, right, layer to layer variation has to be on the order of three nanometers, right? And so, overlay is three nanometers. That means each individual part the accuracy of its physical movement has to be even less than that, right? Has to be sub one nanometer in most cases because the the error of these things stacks up, right? And and and so t here is no way to like you know just like snap your fingers and increase production, right? You know, think simple as power, right? You are going from zero percent power growth to two percent power growth. Even China's only at thirty. Was like so hard for America to do, right? And and and that's a really simple supply chain with very few people in the supply chain, right? Who make difficult things. And there is, you know, probably a hundred thousand electricians slash people working the
Much of that progress is just numerics, and then, like, if you just hold constant, say, FP sixteen from a one hundred to B one hundred, the B one hundred is like a little over one teraflop, and then a one hundred is like three hundred teraflops. And so you have you have like basically three x holding numerics constant. You have like three x performance from a one hundred to B one hundred, and then some of that is the process improvement, some of that is just the accelerator design improvement, which we could replicate again in the future. And so then it just means actually it's like very small effect from the process improvement from seven nanometer to four nanometer. So I don't know. So say we have I don't know the number offhand, but let's say t here is like one hundred fifty k wavefronts per m onth of three nanometer, and then eventually similar amounts for two nanometer, but then t here is a similar amount for seven nanometer, right? So if we have all those wavefronts, and then t here is maybe a fifty percent haircut because the process, you know, the bits per wavefront area are like what is fifty percent less or something. Then it's like it doesn't seem like that bad. It just brings on seven nanometer wavefronts, and then oh, that gives you another fifty or another hundred gigawatts. Yeah, tell me why that's not a. Yeah, so I think you know we potentially do go crazy on that. This is this happens because we just need incremental compute, and the compute is worth the higher cost power, etc. Of these chips, but it's it's also unlikely to some extent to a large extent because I think I think just comparing you know some of these are like not fair comparisons, right? For example, you know from a one hundred, which is three twelve teraflops, to Blackwell, which is like a thousand-ish of FP sixteen, or maybe it's two thousand, then Rubin is like five thousand or so FP sixteen. It's It's not a fair comparison because these chips have vastly different, you know, designs, right? At At a one hundred, that's what that that is what Nvidia optimized for was FP sixteen, BF sixteen, numerics. When you look at Hopper, they didn't care as much about that. They care about FP. When When you look at Rubin, they don
The reason I explain this is because when I look at when you look at Hopper versus Blackwell, even if both of them are using, you know, a rack worth of chips, the Hopper is significantly slower because the amount of performance that you have leveraged to the task within that, you know, within each domain of, hey, tens of terabytes a second of communication between these transistors or or these processing elements, and you know, terabytes a second between these processing elements is much much higher, and therefore the performance is much higher. So when you look at inference, let's say one hundred tokens a second for DeepSeek and communicating two point five Hopper versus Blackwell, the performance difference is on the order of twenty x interesting, not two or three x like the flops performance difference indicates. Even though those are on the same process node, yeah, um, you know, t here is just differences in networking technologies and what they've worked on, and so you can translate some of these back. Um, but when you look at like Rubin what they're doing on three nanometer, some of these things are just not possible to do all the way back on a one hundred, even if you make a new chip for interesting seven nanometer. T here is just certain architectural improvements you can port. T here is certain ones you cannot, um, and and so the performance difference is not just going to be the difference in flops. It's in some senses cumulative between differences in you know flops per chip, networking speed between chips, how many flops on a chip versus a system, memory bandwidth on a single chip and on an entire system. All of these things compound. Can I see very quick question? So this year last year the B two hundred has now two dies on a single chip, so you can get that bandwidth on a single chip without having to go through a million core in band. And then next year Rubin will probably have four dies on one chip. What is the reasoning? Us from just doing that with and like how many dies could you have a single chip and still get these tens of terabytes a second? Yes, so even within Blackwell, um, there are differences in performance when you go when you are communicating on the chip versus across the chips. Uh, those those bounds are obviously much smaller than when you are going, you know, out of the entire chip. But each die versus, uh, you know, within the package
The amount that they can ship in import from ASML is is large, but the point being that the vast majority of ASML's revenue, especially on EUV, all of it is outside of China. So the scale advantage is still in favor of let's call the West plus Taiwan, Japan, etc. They're trying to make their own EUV and UV tools, right? They're trying to do all these things. The question is how fast can they advance, and and scale up production as well as quality. And to date, we haven't seen that. Now I'm quite bullish that they're going to be able to do these things over the next five to ten years, right? Really scale up production, really take it into higher gear. They have more engineers working on it. They have more desire to throw capital at the problem. So twenty thirty, do they have fully indigenous EUV? I think for sure, for EUV, yes, and fully indigenous EUV by twenty thirty. I think they'll have working tools. I don't think that they'll be able to manufacture a bunch yet, right? You know, they're they're sort of having it work, and then there's production hell, right? And ultimately, like ASML had EUV working in the early twenty ten's at some capacity, right? Now the tools were not accurate enough, they were not scaled for high production, or for scaled for high volume manufacturing, reliable enough. And then they had to ramp production, and that all took time. Production hell takes time, right? Just like it's going to take another five to seven years to get EUV into mass production at a fab, rather than just working in the lab. So how many EUV tools do anybody be manufacturing in twenty thirty? ASML? No, China. That's a great question. You know, current it's it's it's a bit of a challenge to look into the supply chain, especially we try really hard. But you know, in some instances, they're like buying stuff from Japanese vendors, and if they want to fully indigenous supply chain, they need to not buy these lenses or buy these projection optics or stages from Japanese vendors, they need to build it internally. So it's really tough to say where they'll be able to get to. Like honestly, things get like shot in the dark. But it's it's probably not unlikely that they'll be able to do, you know, the order of
We're about to sure, you know, some new Chinese models are coming out. But as we move from, you know, hey, these companies are selling tokens where they provide the entire reasoning chain and all that to selling automated, you know, white collar work, right? Automated software engineer. Send them the request; they give you the result back, and t here is a bunch of thinking on the backend that they don't show you. The ability to just steal American models and the Chinese models will be harder. A, B, as the scale of the compute that the labs have, right? OpenAI exited the year with roughly two gigawatts last year. Anthropic will get to you know two plus gigawatts this year, and and by the end of next year, they'll both be at like ten gigawatts of capacity. China has is not scaling their AI lab compute nearly as fast, and so at some point, you know, when you can steal the learning from these labs into the Chinese models plus the compute race that OpenAI, Anthropic, Google, Meta are all racing on, at some point they end up getting to a point where you know the model performance should start to diverge more, and then all of this capex that's being spent on you know data centers and all that, right, and as on you know two hundred billion Google one eighty, you know, so on and so forth, all these companies are spending hundreds of billions of dollars of capex. You know, there is there is you know nearly a trillion dollars of capex being invested in data centers in America this year, roughly. Right, you end up with okay, what's the return on invested capital here? You and I would think that the return on invested capital for data center capex is very high, and at least if we look at Anthropic's revenues in you know January, they added like four billion in February, which is a shorter month than like six. We'll see what they can do in March and April. Given compute constraints, are what's bottlenecking their growth, right? The relative cloud cost is actually quite low because they're so compute constrained. But if this continues and the ROI on these data centers is super high, yeah, at some point the U.S. economy starts growing faster and faster over the next, you know, this year and next year because of all this capex and all this revenue that these models are generating, and downstream supply chain versus
If we're going to have agents that are just going off and doing work and doesn't really you don't it's not a synchronous chatbot application, then you don't necessarily need extremely high fast latency kinds of things anymore. And so maybe you can have the low low bandwidth because the the reason you stack the RAM and stack and make HBM is for higher bandwidth. And so it's possible to go to HBM accelerators and basically have the opposite of cloud code fast, like have cloud code slow and and do that. I think I think at the end of the day, the incremental purchaser who's willing to pay the highest price for tokens, also ends up being the one that's like less price sensitive, and you know the the compute should be allocated in a capitalist society towards the the the goods that have the highest value, and the private market determines this by willingness to pay. And so to some extent, sure, androptic can actually really do slow mode, right? They could really cloud slow mode and have an increase in tokens per dollar by a significant amount. They could probably like reduce the price of obfuscors by, you know, four x five x, and reduce the speed by another by maybe just like two x, like the curve on inference throughput versus speed is there already just on HBM, and yet they don't because no one actually wants to use a slow model. And furthermore, on these agentic tasks, you know it's it's great that the model can run this time horizon of hours. It's kind of like okay, well if the model was just running slower, that hours would become a day, right? Or vice versa, right? If the model's running faster, that hours becomes hour. And yet no one really wants to move to that day long wait period because the highest value tasks also have some time sensitivity to them, right? And and so I struggle to see you know yes you could use DDR, but then there's a couple like things that are challenging with this right. You could use regular DRAM. One is you are you are still limited, you know, one of the like core constraints of chips, even though they're you know sort of like you know there's a chip is like a certain size, all of the IO is on the edges of the chip, right? So often times you know you see is the left and the right of the chip HBM the IO from the chip to HBM is on the sides and then
Two and a half terabytes a second per hBM stack, right? When you look at DDR in that same area, it's maybe sixty-four or one hundred and twenty-eight bits wide, and that DDR five is transferring any you know anywhere from six point four gigabits a second to maybe eight eight thousand gigabits a second. So your your bandwidth is like significantly lower, lower, right? It's sixty-four times eight thousand divided by eight. You are at sixty-sixty-four gigabytes a second. And even if you take a generous interpretation of one twenty-eight times eight gigabits, you are at one hundred twenty-eight gigabytes a second for the same shoreline versus two and a half terabytes a second. T here is an order of magnitude difference in bandwidth per edge area. And if your chip is a square, or it's twenty six by thirty three, right, is the maximum size for a chip in the visual die. You only have so much edge area, and then on the inside of that chip, you put all your computer. T here is things you can do to try and change right more, ask for more caching, blah blah blah. But at the end of the day, you are very constrained by bandwidth. Interesting. So, then t here is the question: like, where can you destroy demand to for yeah, but not for AI? And I guess the picture is especially bad because you are saying it takes fourx more wafer area to get the same byte for hBM. You are destroying fourx as much consumer demand for laptops and phones and whatever in order to free up one byte for AI. So, yeah, what is the supply for the next year to? Sorry for the wrong question. I think on your newsletter you said thirty percent of the capex in twenty twenty six is being taken towards memory. Yes, that's insane, right? Yeah, like of the six hundred billion or whatever, you are saying thirty percent is going just just to you know obviously t here is some level of like margin stacking that NVIDIA does, so if you separate out, yeah, you know, and you apply that margin to the memory and the logic, but at the end of the day, yeah, like a third of their capex is going to memory. That's that's crazy. Okay, so what what is the question for now? Something like, yeah, what is the supply? What basically what should be sort of the next year to is the memory
We'll buy, you know, high-end phones that cost north of a thousand dollars. We'll buy that, even if they get a little bit more expensive. And Apple's volumes will not go down as much as like a low-end smartphone provider. And and the same applies to PCs. And what this does to the market is quite drastic, right? DRAM gets really goes to AI chips who are willing to do longer-term contracts, willing to pay higher margins, et cetera, et cetera, because at the end of the day, the margins that they extract is much larger from the end user or whatever. And so this this this probably leads to like people paying AI even more, right? Because they're going to start being like, today you already see other memes like on on like PC subreddit and PC like Twitter gaming PC Twitter is like you know cat dancing videos, and it's like this is why memory prices is double than you can get a new gaming GPU, right? Or you can get a new desktop, and and it's going to be even worse when memory prices double again, especially DRAM. Another dynamic that's quite interesting is it's not just DRAM; it's also NAND. NAND is also going up in price. Both these markets have expanded capacity very slowly over the last few years, NAND almost zero. But smartphones, the percentage of NAND that goes to phones and PCs is larger than the percentage of DRAM that goes to phone and PC. So as you destroy demand, you unlock, you know, mostly for the DRAM purposes, you unlock more NAND that gets allocated and can can sort of go to other markets. And so the price increases of DRAM will be larger than those of NAND because you release more from the consumer. In fact, you produce more memory for AI. Sorry, but the NAND is. Maybe you just explained it and I missed it. Is it is it because SSDs are being used in large quantities for data centers? They are, but not as large quantities quantities as DRAM. Okay, but is you saying they they will all increase because there will be some quantity, but like there is not as much needed as there is RAM. Makes sense. What one thing I didn't appreciate until I was reading some of your newsletters is that basically the same constraints are preventing logic scaling over the next few years. It's quite similar to what's preventing us from producing more memory wafers. In fact, like literally the same exact
Recently, and his whole plan is that I guess they're going to build this gig fab, terafab, some power of ten, and they're going to they're going to build the clean rooms. I won't even ask you about the dirty rooms thing, but like, let's say they build the clean rooms. And for okay, I have a couple questions. One, do you think this is the kind of thing that Elon could build much faster than people are currently building? But this is not about building the end tools; this is about building the facility itself. How complicated is it to just build the clean room and do it extremely fast? Is this something that, like, Elon with this move fast thing could do much faster? That's what we're bottlenecked on this year and next year. And two, does that even matter if two years, your view is that we're not bottlenecked on clean rooms space, but we're bottlenecked on the tooling? So I think, I think you know, as with any complex supply chain, it takes time and constraints shift over time. And even if something isn't any longer constrained, that doesn't mean that market no longer has margin, right? So, for example, energy will not be a big bottleneck as we get to you know a couple years from now, but that doesn't mean energy is not growing super fast and there's no margin there. It's just like it's not the key bottleneck. And in this space of fabs, right, clean rooms are the biggest bottleneck this year and next year. And as we get over time twenty nine, you know twenty twenty nine, thirty, there will be still constraints there. The thing about Elon is, I think he's had a tremendous capability to garner physical resources and really smart people to build things. And the way he's able to recruit really amazing people is just trying to build the craziest stuff, right? In the case of AI, that's not really working because everyone's trying to build AI. Everyone's very ambitious, but in the case of like we're going to make, you know, we're going to go to Mars and make rockets land themselves, or we're going to make fully autonomous cars that are electric, right? Or we're going to make humanoid robots, right? Like these are methods of recruiting the people who think that's the most important problem in the world to work on that problem because these are the only ones trying really hard. In
Sort of like calculation, and that number would go up drastically if you go to 3D RAM. That is the hope, but right now everyone's roadmap is sort of like you go from current, it's called a six-cell to a four-cell, and then finally 3D RAM. Like by the end of the decade or the next decade, so there's still like a lot of R&D and manufacturing and integration to be done. I wouldn't call that out of the cards. I think it's very unlikely going to happen. It also is going to require huge retooling of fabs, right? The the breakdown of tools in a fab are very different, right? Actually, the lithography tools the only thing that is like that different, but the number of them relative to different types of chemical vapor deposition or atomic layer deposition or dry etch or different kinds of chambers with different chemistries, all of these things, you have all these different kinds of tools for different processes. You can't just like convert a logic fab to a DRAM fab or vice versa back and forth, or a NAND fab to a DRAM fab in short amount of time. And the same way existing DRAM fabs require a lot of retooling just to go from one B or one alpha to one B beta to one gamma process node, because now they have to add UV and change the chemistry stacks for when you're using UV in terms of deposition etch, and the UV tools to be there. And furthermore, like when you change to 3D DRAM, there's going to be even larger shift, and so there's a lot of retooling of these fabs that needs to happen in terms of the tools. And so that would be a big disruption. That would make UV demand generally lower, but as we see across time, UV demand as a percentage of wafer cost trended up initially or lithography, right? Lithography initially, I'm saying like 2014 era was like 16 percent of the wafer cost, 17 percent, and it's gone to 30 over the last, you know, 15 years. And for DRAM, it was in the mid-teens as well, low teens, and now it's trending towards the high teens. And before we get to 3D DRAM, it'll likely cross into the 20 percentage range. But if we get to 3D DRAM, it
But yes, beyond these numbers, and I think if I remember correctly, your blog post on the power how how you left it increasing power, you were like, where you were implying that geothermal and Mitsubishi and Siemens could produce and gas turbines was like sixty gigawatts a year, and then t here is other sources, but they're like less significant than the turbines. And so, the only exception that goes to AI, I assume. So, yeah, if in twenty thirty we have enough logic and memory to do two hundred gigawatts a year, is it do you just think that these things are on a path to ramp up to more than two hundred gigawatts a year, or what do you see? Yes, so I mean, I mean, right now we're at thirty, right? Yeah, or twenty, twenty, twenty. So this is criticality capacity, by the way, right? This is an important thing to mention. When I am talking about these gigawatts, I am talking about criticality capacity, server plug, and that's how much power pulls. But t here is losses along the chain, right? T here is loss on the transmission. T here is losses on the conversion. T here is losses on cooling, etc. And so you should gross this factor, you know, from twenty gigawatts for this year or two hundred gigawatts by the end of the decade to some number twenty thirty percent higher. And then you have capacity factors, right? Turbines don't run one hundred percent in fact. Like if you look at PGM, which is the largest grid I think in America, sort of the Midwest, sort of Northeast kind of area ish not not the full Northeast, but anyways, PGM they rate in their models for like, hey, turbines how much capacity we want to have? Xs, you know, roughly twenty percent capacity addition in that twenty percent excess capacity we're running all the turbines at ninety percent because they are rated for reliability of things go down, maintenance, etc. Etc. Etc. So then, in reality, the nameplate capacity for energy is always way higher than the actual and criticality capacity because of all of these factors. Yeah. Um, but it's not just turbines, right? If you are just making power from turbines, like that's simple, boring, easy, right? Um, we're you know, peons and capitalism is far more effective. And so
It was the first to do this behind the meter gas, and since then we've seen an explosion of different things that people are doing to get power. And they're not easy, but people are going to be able to do them, and the supply chains are just way more simple than chips. Interesting. So I guess he made the point during the interview that the specific blade for the specific turbine he was looking at, the lifetime for that, could be on twenty thirty. Your point is that that's great. There's so many other ways to make energy. Okay, so like just be inefficient, like it's fine, right? So you're like right now, I guess combined cycle gas turbines have cap backs of fifteen hundred dollars per kilowatt, and you're saying you could just it would make sense to have either technologies that are much more expensive than that, or other things are getting cheaper enough to that to make it competitive. Exactly, exactly. You know, it can be as high as thirty five hundred dollars per kilowatt, even right. So it could be twice as much as the cost of combined cycle, and the total cost of the GPU, you know, you know on a TCO basis, has gone up a few cents per hour, right? Right. Again, because because we've been talking about hopper pricing a dollar forty now becomes you know oh the power price doubles, okay? The hopper that was a dollar forty is now a dollar fifty in cost, right? Like oh, I don't care because the models are improving so fast, the marginal utility of them is worth way more than that ten increase in energy. Okay, and then so you're saying twenty percent of the grid, so one terawatt about, twenty percent of that can just come online from utility scale batteries, increasing what you're comfortable with. Right. Mechanism. There's like not easy. But like two hundred gigawatts, like if that hypothetically happens, but you're saying on just the different sources of gas generation you mentioned, the different kinds of engines and turbines, combined, how how many gigawatts could they unlock by the end of the decade? Yeah, so we're we're tracking in some of our data where all you know there's over sixteen different manufacturers of power generating things just from gas alone, right? So you know, yes, there's only three turbine manufacturers for combined cycle, but we're tracking sixteen different vendors, and we have all of
That you're shipping from different places, but now you'll ship to a factory integrated. The entire, you know, hey, maybe this is a two megawatt block, and this block goes from, you know, high voltage power to the, you know, the voltage power that you the voltage and and maybe DC that you deliver to the rack instead of being AC and high voltage, right? Or something like that, right? Or cooling, you take you you ship a fully integrated thing that has a lot of the cooling systems already put together, or because plumbings also big constraint here. Or furthermore, you take instead of just a single rack, and then have people wiring up all these racks, power and electricity, blah blah blah blah blah. You take a scale and you put entire row of of servers, and that shipped from the factories, and and to a a single rack, maybe one hundred twenty, one hundred forty kilowatts, but as we get to you know next generation, you know, NVIDIA fiber and things like that, it's almost a megawatt, and then in addition, if you do an entire row, it'll have the the rack, it'll have the networking, and it'll have the cooling, and the power racks all integrated together. So now, when you come in, actually, you have much less stuff to cable, whether it be networking of fiber, whether it be the power right t here is pure power that power things to connect, and then t here is pure plumbing things to connect, right? And so this drastically reduces the amount of people working in data centers, and therefore the capability to build these will be much larger. And along the way, there will be you know new things mean you know some people move faster to new things, some people move slower, right? So and Google has been talking a lot about this modularization as people like Meta and you know many others, right? Have been talking a lot about this modularization, and others are going to be slower to doing it, but at the end of the day, you know, and and people who move faster to new things have more delays, or people who are slower have labor problems, so there'll always be dislocations in the market because this is a very complex supply chain. At the end of the day, it's still simple enough that we will be able to solve it through capitalism and human ingenuity on the time skills that are required. Yeah, okay.
Yes, obviously, power is very space based. I mean, is that the reason to do it? Yeah, that's the reason to do it. But then there's all the other counterarguments, right? Which is because even if power costs double, you're still at fraction of the total cost of the GPU. The the main challenge is is and what we've seen that just versus we have clusters max which rates all the new clouds and we test them. We test over forty cloud companies, including hyperscalers and new clouds. What differentiates some of these clouds the most outside of software is the ability to deploy and manage failure, right? GPUs are horrendously unreliable. Even today, fifteen percent of black levels or so that get deployed have to be remade. You have to, you know, maybe just plug them, plug them back in, but sometimes you have to take them out and ship them to Nvidia or other their partners to do these remades and such. What do you mean by the other counterargument that once you have the initial after initial phase, you don't feel that much? Sure, but now you've you done this, you tested the model, you deconstruct them, put them on space, put them in space, and then put them online again. That's months, right? And if your argument is that you know, hey, GPUs have a useful life of X years, right? If a GPU has a useful life of five years and takes three additional months, probably six, let's say six additional months, then that is ten percent of your cluster's useful life. Yeah, and because we're so capacity constrained, that compute is most valuable, theoretically, in the first six months you have it because we're more constrained now than in the future. Because that compute now can contribute to a better model in the future, contribute to revenue now, which you can use to raise more money to get you know all these all these sort of things. Now is always the most important moment, and so you've delayed your compute deployment by six months potentially. And and the thing that separates these clouds is we see clouds that take six months to deploy GPUs today, Earth, right? We see clouds that take a lot less than six months, right? And so the question is, where does space get in there? I don't see how you would test them all on or deconstruct them and ship them in space, and it not take longer than just putting them in the
To to the period, we're adding a terawatt a year globally of various types of power. At some point, we do cross the casa more space data centers makes sense, but it's not this decade, right? It is. It is much further out. Once you have energy constraints actually being a bottleneck, once you have space land permitting be a much bigger bottleneck as it consumes more and more of the economy, and chips are no longer the bottleneck because chips are the biggest bottleneck. And so, you want them to be able to work on AI the moment they're done being manufactured. And so, there is a lot of things people are doing to increase that speed faster and faster. The modularizing data centers or even modularizing racks where you actually put the chip in at the at the data center, but only the chip and everything else is already wired up and ready to go at the data center. So, there is things like this that people are doing to decrease that time that you cannot do in space. And at the end of the day, all that matters in a chip constraint world is get these chips working on producing tokens asap in a world you know maybe twenty thirty five. One semiconductor industry and ASML and Xi and all these other suppliers, research suppliers, materials fab manufacturers like pendulum swings and able to make enough chips and really optimizing every dial and like it makes sense to optimize the ten percent of energy cost or fifteen percent of energy cost as we move to ASIC potentially and Nvidia's margins aren't seventy plus percent. Maybe that energy cost is thirty percent of the cluster and fab construction. All this like these are the things are data center constraint. These are the things to optimize, but that's not a you know Elon doesn't win by doing you know twenty percent gains. Elon never wins that way. Elon wins when he swings the fences and does ten x gains, right? That's what SpaceX is about. That's what Tesla is about. That's what all of the success has been about, right? It's not about these chasing the twenty percent. So, I think I think space data centers will eventually be a ten x gain potentially as as Earth resources get more and more contentious, but that's not this decade. Yeah, I mean, I think just dry some intuition about how much land there is on Earth. Obviously, the chips themselves, especially if you move to a world where you have racks that are megawatts, megawatty charts like literally is not
The seventy-two GPUs connect all to all, right? So they can send terabytes second to each other any arbitrary other chip in that pod of scale up. Whereas Google, you have to balance through chips, right? So this means if TPu one needs to talk to TPu seventy-six, then it has to balance through various chips, and there is always some blocking of resources when you do that. So because that one TPu is only connected to six other TPus, and so there is a difference in topology and bandwidth, and there are trade offs in advances of both. Right? Google gets to have massive scale up domain, but then they have the trade off of you have to balance across chips to get from one chip to another. You can only talk to six direct neighbors, and so there is like this trade off. Amazon it has has mutated their scale up domain. There is somewhere in between NVIDIA and Google, effectively, where they're trying to make larger scale up domains. They're trying to do all to all to some extent, which is what with switches, which is what NVIDIA does, but also to some extent they use torus topologies like Google does. And as we as we advance to next generations, all three of them are moving more and more towards a dragonfly topology, which means there is sort of like there are some fully connected elements and there are some elements that are not fully connected, so you can get the scale up to be hundreds or thousands of chips, but also have it not contend for resources when you are balancing through chips. Related question: I heard somebody make the claim that the reason that parameter scaling has been slow and only now we're getting bigger and bigger models from OpenAI and Anthropic is that so original GPT four is over a trillion parameters, and only now are models starting to approach that again. And I heard this theory: the reason is that NVIDIA scale ups have just not had that much memory capacity, and so what was the claim exactly? If you have say one five, let's say you have five T model running at FP eight, so that's five five trillion gigabytes, yeah, and then you have the KV cache. Let's say it's like just call the same size. Let's say it's the same size for one batch. So you need ten gigabytes, sorry, ten terabytes, to be able to run a single forward pass, yeah. And then only with the GPT one hundred and vll seventy two
As you look, Google Google does deploy the largest production model of the the major labs, right? With Gemini Pro, it's a larger model than GPT five four, so larger model than Opus. And so you end up with yes, Google does this because they have a unique puller set of compute, right? Almost all TPU. Whereas, in the public is dealing with h one hundred, h two hundred, blackwell, trainiums, TPUs of various generations, right? And and OpenAI is dealing with mostly NVIDIA now, but going towards having AMD and trainiums as well. The fleets of compute, like Google can, can just optimize around the larger model, and they can leverage a thousand chips in a scale domain to get you know the RL times speed much faster. So that you can actually have this feedback loop be fast, but at the end of the day, in isolation, you almost always want to go with a smaller model that gets RL faster and gets deployed into research and development, so you can build the next thing and get more computations. And then this compounding effect of oh, I made a smaller model that RL more that I then deploy into research and development earlier, and I spent less compute on the training itself because I was able and I was able to allocate more compute to the research. This like compounding effect of being able to do the research faster and faster and faster is potentially a faster takeoff, and that's all these companies want is faster takeoff, possible. Yeah. Okay, spicy question. You know, you are explaining you make the same analysis as these spreadsheets, and you are always like six months ago, a year ago, you tell people the memory crunch, or another time you are like the cleaner crunch, and then the the future the tool crunch. Why is Leopold the only person that is using spreadsheets to make outrageous money? What is everybody else doing? I think I think there are a lot of people making money in many ways. I think obviously Leopold Leopold jokes that you know he's the only client that tells me my numbers are too low. Everyone else tells me my numbers are too high. Almost at nauseum, you know whether it's hyper scale or saying hey that other hyper scale their numbers are too high, you know we're like nah, that's no, like no, no, no, it's impossible. But but then you like finally have to convince them that all
And smartphone volumes are going to go down forty percent, you know, over the over the year two after that. People are like you are crazy. That never happened. Except a few people do believe that, and those people did trade memory, right? And and and people did. I don't think like hold is the only person buying like memory companies. I think there are a lot of people buying memory companies. See, of course, size and position and things in a better ways than some. Maybe most, right? I don't want to comment on who's returns or what. But certainly did well. But other people also did really well, right? Trending like this well, you made me dip back for the first time ever. I think it's hilarious. I'd be a dip back, you know. Usually I am like spicy. Yeah. Okay. Maybe some rapid fire. The close up. TSMC, if you are saying look the the memory logic et cetera, the entry is mostly going to be yeah, accelerator, but then there is N two, which is mostly Apple now, and then in the future, I guess yeah, we'd also want to go on N two. Can can they kick out Apple if Nvidia and Amazon Google say hey we're willing to pay a lot of money for N two capacity? So I think the challenge with this chip design timeline is take a long while, and so that's more than a year. And the designs that are on two nanometer are more than a year out. Yeah. And so what would really happen is Apple or sorry, Nvidia and Amazon will be like, "Hey, we're going to prepay for the capacity, and you're going to expand it for us." And then Apple be and and maybe TSMC takes a little bit of margin, but not a ton. They're not going to kick Apple out entirely, right? What they're going to do is when Apple orders X, they may say, "Hey, we predict we only need Y or X minus one," and so that's what we're going to use X minus one, and then that flex capacity Apple's kind of screwed on. Um, we're traditionally Apple's always over order by like ten percent and cut back by ten percent over the course of the year. And some years they they hit the entire ten percent, just you know, volumes vary, right, based on the season and macro blah blah blah blah. Um,
GPU like four months before Nvidia's. I want to say it was V one hundred A one hundred A one hundred I think. And so you know, I mean that's just moving to a process. No, that doesn't imply software. It doesn't imply hardware design. All these other things. Well, Huawei is arguably the only company in the world that has all the legs, right? Huawei has crack software engineers. Huawei has crack networking technologies. That's in fact their biggest business historically, right? And they have crack AI talent. But furthermore, beyond Nvidia, they actually better AI researchers. And furthermore, beyond Nvidia, they have their own fabs. And furthermore, beyond Nvidia, they have you know their own you know and market of like tokens and things like that. Huawei tends to be like they're able to get the top, top, top talent. Nvidia is well, but not as not as and and concentration. And Huawei has a bigger pool in China. It's very arguable that Huawei, if they had TSMC, would be better than Nvidia. And there are areas where China has advantages outside of areas that Nvidia can't access as easily, right? Around not just scale, but also like some things on you know certain optical technologies, China's extremely good at. So t here is t here is certain. I think it's very reasonable that if in twenty nineteen that is that that was not that Huawei was not banned from using TSMC. Huawei would Huawei would already eclipse Apple as the biggest TSMC customer, and Huawei has huge share in networking and compute and CPU and all these things. They would have kept gaining share and they'd likely be TSMC's biggest biggest customer. Wow, that's crazy. I've got a kind of random final question for you. So the other part of the interview was robots, and so if if humans take off faster than people expect, if by twenty thirty there is millions of humans running around, which each need local local compute. Any thoughts on what that implies? What would be required for that? You know, there is there is a lot of like difficulties with like the VLMs and all these things that people VLMs that people are deploying on on on robots. But to some extent, you don't need to have all the intelligence in the robot, and it would be much more efficient to not do that, right? Because in the server in in in cloud, you can batch process all these things. So
I personally think thinks that you know Taiwan risk is huge, and because of that, and the centralization of resources in Taiwan, him having his robot chips in Texas, and also being a separate supply chain that is not constrained by no one's making AI chips really on Samsung besides Nvidia's new GPU that they're launched they're launching next week, but we're recording it the week before. It's coming out this week. This episode's coming out Friday. Oh, this episode's coming out before. Yeah. So they're launching this new AI chip next week for which is built on Samsung, but that's like sort of a recent development from Nvidia, and then that's the only other AI like AI demand there, whereas on TSMC everything is competing. So he gets this like both geopolitical diversification, but also the supply chain diversity for his robots, and he's not as competing as much with with the like willingness to pay of Infinity of the data center geniuses. Okay. Final question on Taiwan. If we believe that tools are the ultimate bottleneck, how much of Taiwan's place in the semiconductor supply chain could we de-risk simply by having a plan to airlift every single process engineer out when things come to if they get blockaded or something? Or do you actually still need to ship out the EV tools, which would be multiple plane loads per single tool and would not be practical? If you ship out all the process engineers, assuming it's like hot enough that you destroy the fabs, no one has all the fabs in Taiwan now, which is a big risk, right? Yeah. You know these tools actually use a lot of semiconductor, which are manufactured in Taiwan. It's like it's like a you know a snake eating its own tail, sort of like meme because you can't make the tools without the chips from Taiwan, but you can't use without the tools in Taiwan. You know, t here is obviously some diversification there, but and and they don't use super advanced tools in lithography tools. But at the end of the day, there is some tail eating the dragon. Just shipping out all the engineers and blowing up the fabs means China has a stronger semiconductor supply chain than the rest of the world, right? In terms of diversification. Now that you've removed Taiwan, and now you've got all the know how, but you've got to replicate it in, let's say, Arizona or wherever for TSMC, and it's going to take a
