Today I'm interviewing Ryaner who is CEO of Madex, which is a new chip startup. Previously, he was doing GPU architecture and many other things at Google. This is a very different format from my usual interviews. This is going to be a blackboard lecture, and we're going to spend a second. We've built this whole studio specifically this format in mind, and it's a pleasure to agree with you. We're going to be talking about model architecture and all of many other things, and the reason I think it's an important topic is because once you actually understand how training and inference actually work in a cluster, as we'll see a lot of things about why AI is the way it is, why architecture is the way they are, why API prices are the way they are, fundamentally also how why AI progress is the way it is. Start making sense, and you need to understand details to get there, and you need a blackboard to understand details. So, Ryaner, thank you so much for doing this. Yeah, great to be here. Okay. Well, for this lecture, I am a angel investor in Madex, but that's another podcast. Ryaner, maybe to kick us off, last question. So we have a couple of companies like Claude and Codex and Cursor offering something like fast mode, where for sixx the price, extremely token at two point fivex speed. Mechanically, and curious, what's going on here? Well, why is in the case that you can pay more to get faster latency, and two could you keep going? Could you pay a hundredx more and still get even faster speeds, or much much faster speeds? And three, could you go the other way? Could you do something like Claude Code Slow Mode, where if you are willing to wait for minutes, and you could get even cheaper prices? So maybe this will help motivate the kind of analysis that you'll be doing later. Great. I mean, to jump to a little bit to jump to the conclusion, the biggest batch size. So what we're going to do now is quantify exactly what that looks like and what its implications are on latency and cost. There's going to be another effect, which is you can call it speculative coding or multi token prediction. We can maybe come back to that later about that thing. The first thing that we'll talk about is batch size. So what I like to introduce is sort of the two principles of analysis. Firstly,
This is something of this time is being at least this much, and and maybe there are some terms we ignored. On the memory side, what do we need to do with memory? We we need to fetch, we need to fetch all of the weights, and so there is some time to fetch all of the the total number of tokens on just the activations. So there is weight fetch time, and then in addition, there is a KV cache fetch time. So there is this actually depends on batch size. So for every element in the batch, we have to fetch an entire context length worth of tokens, and then there is a size of tokens, like bytes, bytes per for one token. And so there's some. And maybe just back in, let's let's explain what the KV cache is. Yeah, so when I do a forward pass, let me draw actually a how the autoregressive inference works. So this is decode. So if I think I have a bunch of tokens, I'm growing a tensor because ultimately the tokens are represented as some tensor in some embedding dimension, and then in this direction, I have the tokens. The work of running a decode is I have to run each token through a whole bunch of layers, all the layers, and I have in general I'm going to do that work over all of these tokens. But then one step of decode is actually to produce just this one additional token here. And so what I'm going to do there is I'm going to run a full forward pass of applying all of the weight matrices in the model. But then I've got this attention mechanism where this token sort of it's it's like looking at all of the past tokens in this way, and what is it looking at specifically? It is looking at some internal representation of the model that produced the tokens, and we call that the KV cache. So this process of attending this this single token attending all of the history of tokens, the attention is mostly dominated by memory fetches. And then, then memory. So we've got the amount of memory that we're fetching over here, and then this of course just divided by the memory bandwidth. So so the memory bytes per second. So in fact, this these equations here are actually enough for us to now some draw some fits lines, and so the things that we like to look at are sensitivity to batch, and then also which we'll draw separately to context length. So we said that the big big effect you can get
So there is some lower bound. We can see here. We can see lower bound, lower bound. This already partially answers the question. For a given hardware configuration, and we can talk about varying hardware configuration. For a given hardware configuration, there is a lower bound latency, which is simply the need to read all of my total parameters from from memory into the into chips, and that takes a certain amount of time. If If I use all of my memory bandwidth, I can do it any better than that. It's simply the way you draw the slope for compute time and how the KB grows. And what implication the KB has on memory time that as yeah, this this we're above or below or yeah, or is that necessarily the case? Because if this is always true, then as batch size grows, compute always dominates KB, and which suggests that if you have big enough batch size, maybe memory never an issue. Yeah, this is really sensitive to the context length. So I think we should come back and explore this. Yeah, the there will be as you vary the context length, the KB fetch time will go up and up, and so that will cause a transition from compute limited to memory limited. Is there something especially significant about this slope being exactly the slope of the the read time? Yeah, whenever we have balance points, it kind of says that you are getting it exactly right. And so, for the particular context length where the slopes match, that says I am equally memory bound and compute bound, which is a really desirable place. Yeah, but suppose it's like this is a very simple algebra algebra problem. But suppose it's you know the the optimal is one hundred k context length, and you go to two hundred k context length. And if you go down to like fifty, like is there any humongous impact on MFE? Yeah, like slightly outside of context length, the optimal range will be locked down. That's right. So that is true as model here. There is a key point here that I am modeling this context length as I am modeling the memory fetch as linear context length. That actually depends on model architecture. It is true for many of the all of the model architectures with dense attention. Yeah, there is sparse attention actually scales much better than that. Right, and is sparse attention ever used in practice? I am pretty excited about sparse attention. It's hard to know what labs are using. Deepseek published sparse attention. I can just I'll
Like it's because we've got so many weight fetches, which are not amortized over large batch size. But then, as we increase the batch size, the weight fetches become amortized over so many different batch elements that the cost goes grows very small, and eventually, the compute time ends up driving the cost. So there is a limiting, like lower bound, lower bound on cost, which is written here. Yeah. So, code slow or code slow, whatever. We just live on this line. And how much? Because you're, you're not able to amortize the, KB values over, much bigger batch. Yeah, yeah. The unique batch, the compute is also unique batch. And so, what is the minimum work you can do per batch after amortizing everything away? So this point where you are no longer memory bound, what practically, how big a batch do you need? To like how yeah how big are the batches? Yeah, practically for different models. You can you can just solve for that actually, and it's not even particularly sensitive to model architecture. So let's let's go ahead and do that. So what we're talking about is we're going to say when the memory time is equal to the compute time. That's that that's what that question is. For now, I'm going to discard the, because we're focused on what what the batch size is and really this question of what when the weight amortized over the the the multiply. I'm going to focus on comparing the weight fetch time to the weight multiply time. I'm going to discard the KB fetch term, just just simplify the analysis, so we can get kind of a clean answer out. So we're going to equate this portion with this with these two terms. Yeah. So right now we get number of total parameters over memory memory bandwidth is equal to batch size times number of active parameters divided by the compute performance. So looking over here, everything on the top these are model parameters, everything on the bottom these are hardware parameters. It it turns out to be nice to rearrange them such that we have the hardware parameters on the side. So so that this is equivalent to, so memory bandwidth being equal to batch size times number of active parameters divided by the number of total parameters. So so this is a hardware parameter. Actually, this actually ends up being dimensionless. Constant. If you look in terms of flops, what are the dimensions of this? This is
We we solve for the equivalence between when compute time is equal to memory time. If I add in more memory bandwidth, like something that consumes more memory bandwidth, then I have less available for the loads, and so I need to grow the memory a little more, and therefore the batch size is more. This seems incredibly small. The batch this would be like less than one sequence, right? Yeah, okay. So, so I guess this is keep in mind that I am talking about the number of tokens I am generating one more token for. So, so it's like it's actually two thousand unique sequences. Okay, we're just talking about the a single forward pass. Yes, because this is like the batch. Do you think like the batch is a number of sequences rather than like that's right. If you've got it for your model and you are actually doing inference, surely they must have more than two thousand concurrent users. Yeah. Is there any added latency from the fact that you need to have the whole batch fill up, or is it if you have a reasonable amount of users, it's so likely that you won't it would not take you one hundred milliseconds to fill up the next two thousand slots. Yeah. The the way to think about this, I guess, we thought think about is like when does the train depart? Does the model? Yeah. So, let's say I've picked a batch size. I am going to run it. Maybe it takes you know this batch size, and so like well, and by the way, this intersection point is is the same intersection point here. So I pick this batch size. I know that it's going to take, for example, maybe something like twenty milliseconds is a common place for something. What I am going to produce is, like, so this is a timeline of what is running on the GPU. It's going to start a new batch every twenty milliseconds regardless, and so, so it's this is twenty, this is forty. Yes. You can think of this as a schedule for the train. In new train depart every twenty milliseconds. Yeah. Any passengers who are ready board the train. If the train is full, then they wait to the next train. If the train is not full, full the train is going to go anyway. And so, in terms of what that means for human latency, means that the worst case is that you, like, I would question just after the train departed, you have to wait
That you would have these economies of scale from inference, from batching. Yeah, but it seems like it's not that because, like, I don't know, it's two thousand users is the same thing a lot. It's the same thing a lot. So we can do a bit of analysis on this, which would be actually like you can think of it in terms of number of users, but maybe a more productive way to think of it is in terms of number of tokens per second. So what is the batch size in terms of tokens per second of this system? So tokens per second, tokens per second is going to be equal to batch size around a batch many tokens, and then we do that every t, so every time interval, which is let's say which is which is this thing is equal to fifteen milliseconds, fifteen milliseconds number. So this ends up being batch size self times about sixty. So about sixty four times t, and so this ends up being around two thousand times sixty four, so like hundred twenty eight, hundred twenty eight t tokens per second. So this is sort of in more digestible units. Like it's hard to reason about tokens per users, but what is the global traffic for for this system? When you look at some of the announcements, sometimes the API providers will brag about how much traffic they have. The the the numbers I've remembered from some announcements of Gemini last year were in the hundreds of millions of tokens per second worldwide. Yeah. So about like this is one thousand for that person. But I mean, one thousand Gemini's, actually, one thousand Gemini's a lot. Yeah. To actually be, to be competitive in that scale, you need to be able to serve at least one thousand Gemini. Yeah. Yeah. Interesting. Cool. Okay. So the more sparsity you have, the less compute you need, and it does seem that as batch size is getting bigger, compute is being the bottleneck, according to analysis. So then the question is, how far can you decrease sparsity? That is to say, as the sparsity ratio increases, as you have fewer active parameters relative to total parameters, how much is performance of the model degrading? And is it degrading faster than you're saving compute by increasing the sparsity factor? Yeah. So performance quality is the, rather than speed of the model. Yeah. Yeah. So unfortunately, we're not able to answer that analytically. That's now is an empirical question of
So there is actually this equivalence between if I want to go sparse, or if I have a lot of users, I can go to a much sparse model. So from that point of view, it's it's a reasonable trade-off. The other trade-off that shows up here is that it also consumes more capacity, which we we've only reasoned about in the back of the head, but it makes sense. So let me just make sure I understood. You are saying we want bigger, we we want this one less computing. Therefore, we do more sparsity. To make that work, we need bigger batch sizes, which means we need more memory capacity. Yeah, so add more sparsity. Yeah, so I mean, maybe this would be a good point to actually talk about how a mixture of experts layer is typically laid out on on like on a rack of GPUs. Yeah, yeah, yeah, makes sense. Yeah, we're sparsity mixture of experts. Yeah, maybe how we lay that on out on a GPU. Yeah. So let's zoom in on the mixture of experts layer first, and sort of draw what that looks like. So we typically will have some kind of a router layer, which is making the decision of where we route the experts. The tokens too, so tokens come in here, they go through a router layer, and we have a bunch of different experts. Draw draw a few more to line them up, and then the router will make a decision on which experts to make the route to, and it'll be a small fraction of them, maybe one thirty two. So maybe it'll make a decision to route to this one, maybe this one, and maybe this one. These experts, so these each expert itself is a normal MLP. It has an up projection and a down projection, and nonlinear between. And then finally, we sort of do the inverse operation. So where we were broadcasting things out here, we're going to bring them back in and sum them up. So bring in a bit like this, and then finally we have our residual connections. The token is also passed through here and gets added to the result of the normal layer. So so this is a normal MLP layer. What I wanted to talk through is how this is mapped to a like a GPU rack, and what this means for communication, because I think this will start to show some of the the limits of how sparse we can go. So the standard practice here and is the best solution is
Then I have the challenge that I maybe I've got some sort of rack boundary drawn outside here like this, and I know longer in fact I've got all communication between all the GPUs in two racks, and so the rack-to-rack communication ends up being substantial bottleneck. So this sort of like the fundamental thing here is that one rack is actually the bounds the size of an overlay, and so this is being part of what's being driving towards larger, larger interactions. Yeah. Before we, it maybe worth explaining what exactly a rack is. The differences in bandwidth between a rack and within a rack, and the all-to-all versus not all-to-all nature of communication within versus outside. Yeah, and this is a place where it starts to be very different in fact between, Nvidia for example, Google, and others including us. The so generally a rack is a it is a physical structure. It is a few meters tall, made or two wide, depends on configuration, and it stores some number of GPUs or GPUs, which is typically about sixty-four. The the constrains it being certain size is power delivery, weight, and cooling ability. It ends up being about size in many cases because of these physical constraints. So then when I deploy data center, I have I data center may have thousands of these racks. So I've got one of these tall racks, just got bunch of GPUs in it, and so on, and then I put in another rack. Next, you made that so easy. Yeah, drop the mic. In Nvidia's case, the the communication topology is actually it they put the GPUs on on the outside of the rack, and then they put these switches on the inside of the rack. So what this ends up being is that there's a set of switches in here, these are the NV switches, and then they run a bunch of cables. Every single GPU has cables going going to the switches in the middle. So every GPU goes to the switches in the middle, and then the switches have connections to all the GPUs. So all of the GPUs can talk to all the other GPUs in just like two hops going to the switch, going to the other GPU. Now when I want to leave the rack, I end up going via a different path. The GPUs have also a much slower connectivity, which is typically about eight times slower, which is so so the green that I drew here in GPU cases is the NVLink, more generally it's called the scale-up network. This is
Decision to switch from trays as the form factor. One of these is trays, just switching to racks as the form factor. That's a product decision. There wasn't substantial technical barrier there. Switching from from the like sixty four to five hundred so there is a bit of change there, but there is at least a genuine four x increase, which is coming from a much more complicated and difficult design. So that is actually like new, new physical design to run more cables, and cable complication is just the the the cost figuring out which cables to which or like which signal. Yeah, I mean, let's sort of zoom in on this and look at the wire density. I'll draw this diagram just once more, so we have a bit of a cleaner version to work with. I am a large version. Let's have some switches in the middle. Let's. I am going to have initially. I am going to start with just two GPUs on each side, two trays of GPUs on each side, and let's say maybe each tray wants to have two cables coming out of it. So I get some kind of I physically run very few cables, look like this, and then to switches. Now, if I want to double the number of GPUs in a rack, I need to run like literally twice the density of cables. So I need to run, yeah, these as well. Extreme equation. Yeah, if you look at a physical denser, it seems like there is a lot of space within the rack. I don't know; just like the cables are like really big. Yeah, so there is space outside the rack, inside the rack. Like these racks are like, I mean, as they become more optimized, these racks are very tight. So t here is connector density going from from from from the tray into the rack, and the rack backplane and the backplane itself has has already high density. There are other physical constraints including like bend radius of cables, like you don't snap them, so yeah, it's literally physical space to put a cable. Yeah, that's interesting. Yeah, I know. Yeah, interesting. That seems surprising that like the rack is so big and just like we can just have more cables in there. Yeah, I mean, rack design is not my expertise, but like when I talked to the folks in one of the constraints about it, it's it's a combination of the what are the big physical things organizing for space, weight of
The the active parameters as we saw is limited by the compute cost, and the total parameters is limited by the scale up size. Yep. When you're operating within a single scale domain, is that a consideration specifically for either forward or backward, or specifically for prefill versus decode, or is it is it preferred to always be within scale up? Yeah, whatever kind of workload you have, whether you're doing a pretraining run or whether you're doing RL generation or whether you're doing inference users. Yeah, really interesting. Um. So, okay. So, to answer that question, we're going to need to talk about the communication patterns. That so we've talked about the mixed vector communication pattern. That is, all to all, is all to all, all to all, all to all. Very strongly favors full connectivity, which we kind of just showed here, and favors being within one rack. There are other kinds of parallelism besides expert parallelism, which which which we just showed here. In the literature, is tensor parallelism. This is with the trend towards smaller experts is becoming much less relevant. So we can ignore that. But the other two things that we have available are data parallelism and pipeline parallelism, and they are actually much they can be much better fit for using multiple racks. So let's focus on pipeline parallelism specific. This is one layer, and we I'm going to have like a hundred more layers up above. I could decide at this point, for example, to move to a different rack, a change rack. Now, is that going to become a communication bottleneck? So, we can actually just solve for when this becomes a communication bottleneck. But before we do that, algebraically, let's just sort of visualize it and sketch the path. So we're going to have one. This is another one layer. We're going to have another one. We're going to have another one. So let's say I change rack here, and then some number of layers later, I change rack here as well. So our our methodology that we're going to use to determine whether we have a communication bottleneck in this like in this point where we change rack is we're going to compare the this this is the scale out scale out bandwidth requirements to the scale up bandwidth requirements. So let's try this, and and I mean the hint is going to be that there's a lot more transfers here, like sending many things here, whereas we're only sending one
Activated experts, and then also this this same thing applies on multiple layers. So maybe I am going to run two layers. So t here is also multiple times number of layers per stage. And there is need to model the whole thing to the for the all the layers. Yes, yes, and t here is a factor of two. So what we would like is the for the scale up time to be greater than the scale up time. Because like the scale up time is the more important in practice, so and so we just we want this one. We would like this number to be greater than equal to one, and this really doesn't seem hard. Like, we've t here is just a factor of two that we need to overcome. So we need the product of these things to be bigger than eight. Physically, we have a fairly large number of activation layers, which would be eight by itself, and then we can increase the number of layers per stage a lot until until we satisfy this. So what this ends up looking like is that I can in fact have an entire pipeline of racks where one rack does one layer, and then move on to the next rack and do another layer, and then move on to the next rack and do another layer. It's interesting to me that the best parallelism strategy in practice ends up being one, which physically resembles the actual architecture. Is not some galaxy brain thing, you know, like oh, we have experts we're going to put them on different queues, or we have different layers we're going to put them on different racks. Isn't that? I feel a little interesting that the physical and the the the model architecture matches like the the coding matches the model. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, it would have been something wilder with tensor parallelism and whatever. Yeah, so I mean, I think I would think of it is. I mean, the galaxy brain way to think of it is like one all the different dimensions in which the model scales up, and so there is it is scaled up by layers, it is scaled up by the like the model dimension, it is scaled up by the different dimension, it is scaled up by the number of experts. Every single one of those numbers you can choose to cut along, and if those numbers are big enough, it eventually becomes profitable to cut along there. Yeah, and we have selected two of them. The other two in the way typical models of typical size are not profitable. So t here is
The I'll focus on inference first. It's just a slightly simpler problem. So, and I'm going to draw sort of this time, and then this is which rack, rack, where, and so the idea is that maybe I'll have like four racks. So I've got inference is going to like step through these four racks in some time like this. So great. This is inference number zero. It runs at a certain batch size, and it steps through all all the pipelines, like this. Now, if we just say, well, we're going to run inference number one here, like this is clearly like massive waste, right? Like three quarters of the time, each of the racks is doing nothing. So, so we don't actually run inference one here. We we we run as soon as we can, which is immediately after inference zero finishes, like this. So, and we keep going. So, if we hadn't filled this, we would call this a pipeline bubble. Whenever drawn in this inference context, we're only going in a forward pass. It's like obvious, like why would you do this stupid thing? But in a training context, it's maybe less obvious. But in the inference context, it's it's sort of really natural to to make this change. Oh, just so this sort of matters, but the difference between batch and batch doesn't matter at all in inference because you can just call whatever you want, whatever. Yeah. The only matters in training because there is an optimal batch size. Yeah. And before you do the backward step, you want to have accumulated. Before you do a full backward step, you want to have accumulated all the sequences in a batch, and if you want to do pipeline in training, in order to avoid that bubble, you need to. Should we draw the the training diagram? Yeah, that's that. So, so this is the inference diagram. I'll call this four. So we don't have the wrong thing drawn out there. So let's do the same thing for training now. We go to forward pass, but let's also say we're going to have a transition to backward pass. So we'll we'll do some number of batches in the forward pass, and then we're going to transition to the backward pass for everyone. We want to go. So the inference part is the same here, but then we do a hard stop at this point and then transition around to backward pass. So one
That's much bigger than, like, trillion parameter model. Trillion parameter model is only one terabyte, and so it already fits. And so, there's not a huge benefit from, um, from hyperlearning because you you're reducing a number that's already pretty small. But it does say that theoretically, maybe had too much memory, and uh, maybe could have done a different, uh, like built a different hardware that has less memory. In fact, if you were designing a hardware like, and you said I actually didn't need that much memory because I don't need the weights to fit in one rack, I can fit the weights in eight racks, um, then uh, I could have maybe built a hardware that didn't have so much each GPU. So, macro-wise, everybody's talking about the memory wall right now. We're spending more funds. There's not enough memory. Smartphone volume will go down 30% because there's not enough memory. Hyper scaleers are spending. We're just shocking a billion said they're spending 50% of their capex this year on memory. On memory, that's believable. So, with like, what is hyper scaleer capex? It's like high hundreds of billion, maybe trillion, and they're spending half of that on memory. Okay, so that that is a huge constraint. That's what we're not going to get new laptops and phones this year. Yeah. Um, but at the same time, we're we have too much memory. Like, people are willing to put too much memory into these systems. Right. So, um, this is like, why why is it that they're spending all this memory to these racks? Yeah. So we need, yeah. So we like in in the equations we had before, we were doing memory time, so memory bandwidth and compute bandwidth. Let's now start looking at memory capacity. Yeah. So we'll start off with just like memory capacity without even thinking about parallelism scheme. Um. So the um uh like the capacity of memory um or the or the the amount of memory is um the number of total parameters. Um, plus so so this is what we need to fit the weights in some system that we are using, and then we need to fit the keys as well. So, keys are the batch size times the length of the context times times the bytes bytes per byte. Okay, so um, what I was arguing about in this context
Batch tokens are generated already. I do one forward pass to generate a new token, and then and then I push like the new right that to my KV cache. And then I do another forward pass to generate the next token. So I'm actually going to be running this batch zero in a loop. So batch, I go forwards once I finish, I can start the next iteration of the loop. Okay, yeah. So we'll just fill this in. We'll have the. Oh, nice. Yeah. Yeah. So we've got the two, three, two, three, two, three. Uh. So let's split this batch. This batch will be the global batch size. So B is going to be the number of number of micro batches times the batch of like the batch size per micro batch. So how many micro batches do we need? So the number of micro batches in this diagram is four. Zero, one, two, three. Um, and then the batch size per um like the micro batch size. This is still this like two thousand number. Um, this is the one that is like um, this is the like two thousand um times velocity. Sorry, no, this is the three hundred times velocity. Three hundred times velocity. This this is the how big the training takes up between the micro batches, right? Yes, the this is going to be the the training seconds training. So the global batch size is the number of micro batches times the the local batch size. Local batch size is set by the hardware parameter the number of micro batches. Well, the number of micro batches is as small as possible such that we can like wrap around and not leave any idle time when we wrap around. So if we like if we have fewer, we will have have this idle time when we wrap around. And so you can sort of just visually see that it is equal to the number of pipeline stages. I mean, sort of proof by visual here, like it is four and it's four this way as well. But like you can sort of look and see that it goes along here and then wraps around number of pipeline stages. Yeah, it's very very basic version. This is what is actually done. Okay, as in a frontier model today, we actually have during inference pipeline for sure during massive scale training. This is done. Um, it can be done for inference. I'm actually going to make the case for why it is less attractive. It is useful for weights
Just say, okay. So, what is that inference? So, I mean, like, deep state paper, of course, what they do, which is like they just do a lot of parallelism. You should, in fact, you should increase the amount of parallelism up to your scale up to main size, and then do variable pipelining. Maybe not all, maybe to just enough to make the weights, which are not not too big, a bit too. Those are the only two parallelisms that really make sense. In the past, there was tensor parallelism, which was making up within an expert, but the experts are so small now that that is not profitable. Question. So this goes back to the question: Does that mean that for your labs, when they're doing inference, they're just basically within a single scale? Yes, yeah. I mean, you can look at how it depends on model size. Like, you could have a very large model, like like one that exceeds the memory of a rack, and and and there you should be doing a bit of pipelining. Maybe, maybe extremely sparse, for example, and how would be how would you do it? So, I guess this goes back to the question about this goes back to the problem at the beginning of the lecture, which is this lecture tells you a lot of progress as well. To extend, is the case that model size scaling has been slow until recently because. Let me make sure I understand the claim. The claim would not be you could have straying across more more racks. It would just it would not have made sense before. Like we didn't have the ability to do inference for a bigger model easily. Actually, I mean, so pipelining doesn't help with context length. It totally helps with model size. So, because of the ability to do pipelining, at least the racks would not be constrained on your ability to fit the model parameters. I guess the other consideration you are asking like why hasn't it scaled up more, and why did bigger scale up to main scale? So we we talked through one aspect of that, which is we kind of say it it's not because of memory capacity. We we have a solution to the memory capacity, at least with respect to model size. Yeah, not with respect to KB size, but at least with respect to model size, we have a solution to memory capacity. The other issue that shows up is latency. I
This is actually extremely effective. So, basically, I end up with this term here. This memory bandwidth term itself is equal to like scale up size. There's a memory bandwidth view, yeah, yeah, and CPU bandwidth, and so this term doesn't increase a lot. It maybe increases one point five to a generation, but this one increases by like five or eight from from hardware. So the reason the bigger scale matter is not the memory capacity of the scale scale, but really the memory bandwidth. Yeah, yeah, pipelining totally solves the capacity problem, but but scale up size helps solve the bandwidth problem. And the bandwidth problem helps you do longer context lengths, which is more relevant to the model's get more context. Yeah, it lets you just run the model longer. See, as a first thing, if I just do a very fast model and it's on like a little like eight hundred blocks, yeah, the latency will will be really high. Yeah, okay. It's super interesting question. There's continual scaling, which tells you how how big should a model be relative to the amount of data you're training on. But now, obviously, you're not just trying to optimize for the highest quality model you can get with training compute. You want the best results the user can get. Yeah, it makes for training and inference compute. So then there's a question of how much do you overtrain a model such that that compute amortizes over training and inferences minimize to get a certain performance. But now with RL inference, there's or RL there's another consideration, which is you're going to do some amount of pre-training. Yeah, that pre-training will be used both for RL generation and then for inference for the final user. And by over-training here means, while it would have been more efficient just from training compute perspective to have a bigger model that you train for less time because you can learn faster, maybe you you get a smaller model, you spend more compute training it than you otherwise would have, but now it's cheaper to give to users. So basically, maybe maybe let me make the question more concrete: How much more than continual optimal our models overtrain? Yeah, and has that changed the result of RL generation? This is a place where we have to make a guess, right? Because like the the updated scaling laws and and the and the model traffic are not reported, so we have to guess there. But one way to look at it, let
Efficiency is that this involves the first layer of decoding, often decoding less, fewer than than pre-training. Okay, so if you are doing it backwards, so every single generation RL would be six N B. Yeah, so this could be a small number, right? Yeah, this could be somewhere. So they would at least be two somewhere in the range of two to six. So I'll just well somewhere in the range of two to six, something like that. Yeah, and then and then we can add in the inference cost. The inference cost is two number of active times the data inference. I think the way I said it was programmable, so for forward or for the audience, be forward plus backwards, proportion is six. Forward alone is two. That's why RL, where you you are definitely going to generate other directories, but you might or might not generate other directories is two to six. Yes, yeah, thank you. And then inference is is just two. So we're going to solve for essentially maybe a qualitative for these terms that is ballpark where people can be like labs have more information on what is productive in doing more RL, for example, than than doing more pre-training and having that information. But I think a good ballpark is thirty thirty like thirty three percent between each of them. Actually, I am not sure anything to say for that. Another naive model could have been that RL plus pre-training fifty percent, and inference be fifty percent. Yeah, that that's also valid answer as well. The because the system can't really argue for one versus the other, they don't divide that much like thirty three versus twenty five is is on the smaller side. Um. So let's pick one of them. All equals means simple enough. And so we're just going to solve for quality. They're pretty straightforward. We can immediately see that the number of active in the training is totally disappears. So let's factor that out, and we can just say that data in pre-training. I just started to do it the other way; it's a little bit nicer actually. So data in pre-training plus this forward inefficiency over here, inefficiency data in pre-training plus so multiple of like alpha times the data in RL. Is just going to be and and up equal to the some some beta times the data inference. So and then let's just like roughly size the alpha. This this this alpha it's going to be this is like the it's maybe somewhere in the
And and they just settle one way. So I think it's like at this point you can always trade off like the number of inference tokens should be about the same as the number of pretraining tokens should be about the same as the number of RL tokens within like factors of where the model trades off. But then it looks sort of make a basic observation. Seems like there should be less RL tokens than pretraining tokens. Yeah, that's in general right because RL is less efficient in terms of machine time, and so you if you train it equalizes the RL and pretraining time, then then you should have two tokens in about the same amount of time. This is quite interesting. That I never thought about in terms of how much equalizing terms of data. I mean, I think starting with equalizing cost is right, but depending on how your model costs, yeah, comes close to equalizing in data. That if every single user uses basically for GPT to be trained optimally, every single user uses GPT five, the total amount of tokens that they stream should be with the model amount of tokens pretraining. Yeah, and the total amount of tokens that got pretraining is the same amount of human knowledge. So like each model should generate the same amount of human knowledge in the output that gets outputted. Yeah, so I mean, which way? People are like, if you think that people's power of predictions are perfect, and and also you run the risk that your that you make a model that's not a frontier model, yeah, and then you just throw it away, yeah, then then like that kind of changes the cost trade off because there's some like probability of bias in the inference, yeah, and you should do the inference tokens by some amount, right? And then can we back out how much more compute yeah compute that should show optimal for a given sized model? So I think we just have to make some real world assumptions here in order to do that. So so the inference tokens we should totally be able to count, right? So let's say a few hundred million are maybe like five hundred million tokens a second now. I don't really know. Five hundred million tokens a second, and model is deployed for two months before it becomes obsolete. I don't really know. I can do this in my head. Can you? Two point six ten to the fifteen. Okay, two point six ten to the fifteen. Okay. This number is probably too large.
Yeah, that's super cool. Okay, so this sort of turn into things we can probably look up the prices, the APIs of these models, and maybe we can learn something from it. So, first with the longer context, Gemini three point one is fifty percent more expensive if you go over two hundred tokens than if you go to one hundred tokens. I mean, at a high level, I understand why that might that be, but why specifically fifty percent? Yeah, so I mean, why specifically fifty percent? Let's sort of so so the high level, even the batch size is there is some amount of increasing cost with with context length, yeah. And and we can bring that back up. That was the the the memory time versus the compute time. So, okay, so we we've put up the same equations we before of the time for memory fetches, which is the weights and and the KB cache, and then the time for the compute, which is just the matrix multiplication for the weights. I will also draw the the cost curve, but this time I'll do it as a function of context length instead of as a function of batch size. So this time over, yeah, just just time. So this is the cost curve as a function of context length. We'll draw the compute the the the cost of the compute is actually constant as a function of context length. T here is no dependence here on context length. In reality, there is some dependence, but it is very mild dependence, so we ignore it. So this is the time for the compute. This one, and then we'll also draw the dependence of the memory cache on on context length, and this starts at a large number for the weights and then grows gradually with with the context length. So maybe here, and then grows gradually with context length, and so you take the maximum and you see there is this inflection point here. So now, so this is the costs that that for example, Gemini might be paying, and then you think how how how might you put a pricing structure on top of that? You like to ensure that no matter what the context length is, you are you are still profitable. So interesting, and so we've got a two tier pricing structure. Maybe we've got something that looks like this just on the context. Fascinating. So I think it says something about given that the bump is at two hundred K, it probably means that this is somewhat aligned with this crossover point, maybe
To tokens is like 100 billion, and length of the context we said was 208. Something is wrong here. The length of the context should be a little higher. Not the new idea. Um, one six seven. We got one one kilo almost two kilobytes. That that is plausible actually. Um, so we said around two kilobytes. Um, so um, so let's just do a sanity check for this. Um, what this could be. Um, there are two mechanisms that people do attention with a small number of bytes per token. Um, one is dense attention with a lot of reuse across layers. Um, the character AI has a lot. We're talking about that. Also, adding more context. Um, and like in the character AI kind of model, which also showed up in the general models, the global context, which is really what we're talking about here, global context, was shared across all the layers. And so to get this two kilobytes, you could get, for example, as um the head of 128 um is is typical. Um, and then like the number of bytes is typically um number of attention layers um times two times d head times uh number of uh q heads. So this is the number of unique contexts per layer. Do you share the the context across many layers, or do you use only once? Um, so in character AI like models, um, this number is one. Um, we said this is 128. Um, and this is a choice which typically ranges from one. Sorry, this is KV heads. Um, so there is a head and a KV head. Is that the KV heads are the heads that are stored in memory, like store the contents of the previous tokens? The Q heads are the um the retrieval heads. They they are only used parallelly, and they they use bytes of attention. So um in this broader aspect of context, I got KV heads associated with all the context, and then Q heads associated with this new token here. But but this head, the 128. Oh, uh, this is um, it's this this number is actually the same for. Oh, so this d head is the dimension of the vector. I I said 128. Uh, and number of KV heads is typically in the range of 18. Yeah. So um, like it is totally plausible to get this
The general case rather than yes, and in fact, this is like redefile, or something redefile, or just like the yeah, is just pointing to user input or full call or anything at all, yeah, exactly. Generate, yeah, okay, okay. So, suppose we're here. So, you will need to load. Basically, the you will have calculated all of this previously, so just the key of everything that came before. But what is the memory cost of this? Well, memory bandwidth cost of this. If you are doing flash attention, yeah, it's it's basically temporary. It it it doesn't even go to memory, just you know it. Okay, so then it would just be everything that came before. So, is it not just that then? Yeah, there is actually not just only all the memory time. Great. Oh, so it's a very trivial change. Yeah. Okay. Comment it. So this term is making it five x more expensive. Now, why would that be, or what does that tell us about what are we trying to learn, or what does that actually tell us? What variable does this help us clamp? Um. Well, the computer has presumably gotten five. Like the only thing that could have changed the computer's five five x more expensive as a result. So, so yeah, this has the time for one pass, but actually the amount of tokens is that that much larger. Sorry, I guess we want the cost per token, or the time per token. I am not sure. So, the this is. This is for processing the next token prefix. Well, actually, for processing the entire batch. So in this, like at this cost, we have processed this many tokens, like len len prefix. Yeah. Um. Oh yes. Prefix. Yeah, like the of the past. Yeah, yeah, not not this prefix, but it's this cost. Okay, let me let me see what it is about. We get so this is five x more expensive. Um, input is five x five x more expensive, output is five x more expensive, output is five x more expensive. So the result we want to work towards is that prefix is compute limited and decode is, um, memory bandwidth limited. Why don't we do this? Why don't we have? Why don't we just try it with length past on the axis? Yep. Yeah. T on the T axis. T.
Is that to extend the your bottlenecked on memory bandwidth before you can avoid being bottlenecked on memory bandwidth? The fact that they are charging five x less for prefill than decode does suggest that they are bottlenecked on memory bandwidth to a degree such that for that at least because T is equal equivalent to cost right, it's a cost of running the compute. This is actually like this. This would be one, and this would be five. That's right. That's right. Yeah. So it is in fact tremendously memory bandwidth. The real graph looks something like. The real graph looks something like, like that. Yeah, I mean, still crosses, but yeah, yeah, yeah. So yeah, a little bit, a little bit. Yeah, that's right. And then this is the gap on decode between the memory and the compute time. Yeah, yeah, interesting. Another interesting one would be why cache it's are so much cheaper. Yeah. Okay. So if I remember correctly, cache it's are like ten x. It's more expensive to write to cache, according to the pricing on all these models. But if you do have a cache, it's ten x cheaper. So what is going on with presumably this is the cost of keeping something in HBM rather than just evacuating it. But if you do keep it in HBM, then it's cheaper to load again, right? So there's two ways you can produce tokens or the KV cache from scratch by computing it from the underlying like token IDs, which are tiny. Or you can previously produce and store it in memory. So the cost ratio is really talking about the ratio between those two mechanisms for producing it. A cache means you've deleted it from all your memories and you have to recompute it on the tokens directly. In fact, you can maybe even take that a step further and think about which memory tier to store it. So you could store it in HBM. There are other slower and cheaper memories than HBM, like DDR on your host or flash as well. And so one of the things you can do is a calculation of where it makes sense to be in HBM tier. And this is related to how long you're going to store for. So, so we want to look at the cost of storage in a few different memory tiers, and also the cost of rematerialization. So remat means the cost to rematerialize, rebuild all of the KV cache from scratch, having to
Memory bandwidth cost, and so the primary thing that limits you to having large context memory bandwidth, memory capacity, which is exactly the fact. Like, and so there is this idea that Dario said on the podcast and others have said, which is we don't need continual learning for BGI in context learning enough. And if you believe that, then you have to think that we had to get one hundred million, one hundred million billion context length to have an employee that is the equal and working with you for a month. Now, maybe that's no longer true with sparse attention or something. Yeah. Yeah, if you think that, then as some model inference thing would have to change to allow for one hundred million, like the memory bandwidth to allow for one hundred million. Yeah, context lengths. I mean, sparse attention gives you get out the short because you get this square root, like it gives you a big improvement. But I think it's like if you look at the history of context length of models from like earlier models like GPT three, maybe GPT four, and remember when the transition happened exactly like showed up from like about eight k to a hundred k to one hundred k, and then for the last year or two they've all been hovering around there. I think that actually indicates that that sort of the reasonable balance cost point, and going massively beyond that would be cost prohibitive. Not because of the compute cost, but because of memory bandwidth cost. Yeah. So, I actually don't see a very good path to solving that. Like the memory, the HBM is where it is; it's not getting hugely better. And why it isn't sparse attention? Sparse attention is a big improvement. Maybe that is priced already. Perhaps it's an infinite improvement because if you go too sparse, you lose too much quality. Yeah. But yeah, I mean, empirical result is that the context length haven't been increasing that much, and and I think it's because there is no solution to the memory wall. Yeah. Like so, going too sparse just means like you are turning to very small size of the tokens, and the quality will get worse. So, what is the cost of of these different ways of producing recent the size of the KV cache? The KV different cache is based on my GPU time to do certain amount of multiplies in order to of GPU time that I spend in order to store in HBM. This really goes as my I think cache number two, which
Second, but but now this is a a cost to retrieve that is is higher than the HBM because we need to copy it into the HBM. And so this is bytes per token over DDR bandwidth, bandwidth, and then this consumes amount of the DDR. And every scale up has DDR and flash. There's really deployment question, so you you can choose that Nvidia does deploy in this form. It has both. Why isn't the cost to retrieve HBM the memory bandwidth or the bytes per memory bandwidth? Yeah, I mean it depends what what you're defining retrieve to be. Here I'm defining retrieve to be move it into HBM so that you can start actually doing something. And how do we define it? Because if it's already HBM, you can be doing compute while you're getting it from HBM. Yeah, for example. Yeah. So so these are three things, and I guess I ordered them wrong. In general, if you if you're balancing two costs and you've got different memory different tiers and the memory hierarchy, you should expect as as this cost goes up, this cost should go down. So you can kind of see where the zeros are, and like I should have ordered this one first, this one second, and this one third. So if you're going to hold on to it for very short amount of time, then the all of this is like multiplied by the hold time. This one is and so is this one. And interestingly, they have different prices to write for, and it's a use specified this in the API for five minutes versus an hour. Yeah, which which is that the five minutes is HBM and the hour is DDR. I think that's I think that's a pretty good assumption. It could if you look at the numbers. My also turned out that it's one tier down and it's DDR versus flash. Yeah, yeah, interesting. And the price difference between words, I look it up. Okay, so the base base in tokens is five million tokens. Base, which means read. Yeah, that's five. That's five. Five dollars. To like retrieve, quote unquote, and then the to write to presumably HBM to write for five minutes is six point two five. So actually, we might actually be able to determine the which memory tier is by by the duration. Actually, the duration probably tells it to exactly. So the six five minutes versus one hour. Exactly. I think this will
For trade, and I want—I mean, basically to equalize the costs, these two costs. I want the retrieval time to be equal to the hold time times the like fraction of capacity, because like this is the the retrieval time. Yeah, I mean, this this how many different like hold times we have. Basically, just like you wanna you want to store things in there for so long such that the amount of time it's in there is kind of the time to get all your things in there and out. Yeah, basically, yeah. I I think that probably in case this is the two tiers of function in spinning disk, I am kind of shocked to see spinning disk being used at all because it's such an old technology. Yeah, I mean, it's so crazy that it's so slow. It takes an hour to load a full capacity. Like it's really unfair to talk about it, but it's just so complicated. Yeah, so we're sitting down because I want to ask some questions. I guess we need to go forward. You have this extremely interesting blog post where you talk about how, at a high level, the architecture of cryptographic protocols looks a lot like neural network. And there is this conversion evolution where they both need to jumble information across all the inputs for cryptographic protocols to make sure that there is like each new input in the hash function will totally scramble what happens. For neural networks, of course, they need to consider information: the how this piece of information changes what you should make of this other piece of information, and that is an extremely interesting point. I guess the the high level the difference in what they're trying to do it's not necessarily trying to be inverse thing, right? Which is cryptographic protocols are trying to take information which has structure and make it look indistinguishable from randomness. Yeah, and neural networks are trying to take things which are look like random proteins, sequences, DNA, iCarb text, and extract higher level structure from it. So they have similar high level mechanisms, but they're actually trying to try to do the opposite things. The evolution makes that, yeah. So I mean, like the mixing, like I try to look for other examples when mixing, like scrambling, mixing things up as well. There is actually almost even like a physical example where, like you are doing something, you are making a cake, and you want to scramble it, and like literally the idea, like first turn this way and then turn this
On typical image classification models, right? Can I find a perturbation of the image that a very very small perturbation of the image totally changes the classification? Totally changes that. That is the common case in cyphers, whereas that's the unlikely case in neural nets. So, okay. So I was asking you, has have neural networks actually been used for cryptography? And you realize maybe rather reduce to the blackboard. Yeah. So I'm curious, are they actually been used for cryptography? Yeah. So using neural nets for cryptography, well, in general, cryptography like creating new cyphers is a very very dangerous proposition. Like always all of them are very unlikely, ninety nine percent of them are very unlikely. So probably bad practice. But the other direction has been very, at least one very clear case, quite productive. So there is this construction in, so a construction that exists in cyphers and then was imported into neural nets called a faithful cypher, faithful network. So the idea is that you you may have some some function f, which is not invertible, but you like the function because it does interesting things, like it it does an MLP, for example, or or in interesting way. You like to build something out of this that is invertible. So the construction we're going to make is going to actually be a two input function rather than one input function, and we're going to apply f of x. We need to actually remember what x was, so we're going to take x over here, so we can work backwards, and then we also can apply. So we're going to remember y, and we're going to add them together, so we form this tuple. So the the way to invert this, like if you think I have this output and I want to recover x and y, well, I can easily recover x right there. I just read it off, and then to recover y, I like if this thing was called z, I can I can recover y by z minus f of x, because I know how to recover x. So so that means that this construction is invertible. This was used in cyphers like a ton. Still is used. It's one of the main mechanisms of construction cyphers often use cyphers to be invertible, especially the layers of cyphers. You want to be invertible because that has the cryptographic properties. This is actually being ported over into the into neural
Invertible. I don't need to store this at all. I can completely rematerialize it when I'm running my backwards pass. So I run my forwards pass, and then when I'm running my backwards pass, I'm simultaneously in lockstep undoing all of the forwards pass steps that I did in order to to have the activations that I need. Yeah. So this ends up being a memory saving, which is a nice idea. Interesting. And in some sense, you're spending more compute to save memory. That's right. Yeah. Interesting. Ah, actually, it's kind of the opposite of what you're doing with the KV cache. The KV cache. Yeah. Yeah. You're spending more memory to save compute. Yeah. Spending more memory to save compute is generally profitable given where yeah hardware is at. Yeah. Interesting. Cool. That's super fun. Right. Yeah. Thank you so much for doing it. I I feel like it really vindicated the vision behind the studio and yeah and the blackboard. Cool. Thanks so much for doing it. Thanks.
