I'm Mike Allen with Behind the Curtain today from Fort Worth, Texas, where we're talking to Jensen Wang, CEO of Nvidia, the most valuable company in the world, about what's next for the AI revolution. Jensen Wang, co-founder and CEO from day zero of Nvidia, the most valuable company in the world. Thanks for sitting down with Axios behind the curtain. I'm delighted to do it, Mike. Great to see you. Axios always starts with the news. The Financial Times says Chinese regulators are looking at export controls, tightening their controls on AI models and semiconductors to keep them away from the West. Do you think that will happen, and what would the net effect on the US be? I hope not. The Chinese market, Chinese industry creates some really great AI models and AI technology. I said before that half of the world's AI researchers are Chinese, many of them still in China, and they produce some really groundbreaking research in AI. And the United States too, and many places around the world does, and we want to make sure that that we can all share ideas as broadly and quickly as possible, so that we can advance this incredible technology in a way that beneficial to society, safely. So and and so I hope I hope that they continue to keep it open. You were just in China a couple months ago. Do you think they will? What's the likelihood? I don't know. I don't know. I don't know the source of the the news. And there's, of course, all kinds of regulation being discussed, and export controls being discussed. I'm also a doer, and and you know once once once I decide to exercise export controls, everybody decides to think about export controls. I think we are all out of the scale to let the technology advance, and you know the companies in the United States are very very capable, able to move very quickly. I have every confidence that the United States will continue to lead, and so long as as long as we have the support and encouragement of governments, we should be able to continue to do so. Flip side, should the government ban or restrict some or other Chinese models? I hope not. I really don't think so. The United States, the world needs open and closed models. You should use closed models because they're great to use. They work incredibly well, and rather than open AI, these are incredibly great services. We should use closed models as much as we can, with everything
The service itself, maybe you regulate how it's used, the medicine, how it's used in transportation. You should regulate how AI used in autonomous vehicles, and so all these different different applications of AI should be regulated. However, the technology itself, um, ought to be able to advance as quickly as possible. And you said China's adversary in AI. What should the rules of engagement be for the US with an AI adversary? Well, the first thing is to recognize that AI has to be used, and we want to advance it as quickly as possible because the technology when it's advanced is more safe, it's more secure because it works better. However, we want to make sure that the the researchers in all of these in all the countries are able to dialogue, um, cooperate whenever whenever possible so that we can advance the technology safely. I think an open dialogue is really important, and that should be foundational. Your stock price depends partly on sales to China. Why should we trust what you say about China and the market? Well, we just start with the fact that our Chinese sales is approximately zero today, and I've told all of our investors not to expect any Chinese sales. If if um if both United States and United and United States has already already licensed it, the Chinese government and the Chinese market would like us to return. It would be it would be a great great honor to be able to support the customers in the market and good for business and great for business. But until then, I would just assume that the sales is zero. That's Kimi policy. Uh, Kimi, the very powerful Chinese model that really rattled the stock market. Microsoft is using and testing Kimi information's Chinese models, but even replace some of Microsoft's use of open AI and Anthropic. So this Chinese competition is coming fast and furious. What should U. S. AI companies do? These China Chinese models are excellent. Open open source models that are excellent should be used, and so the market misunderstood the impact of DeepSeek the first time. It's misunderstood the Chinese model. Yeah, it's it's misunderstood the impact of Kimi again this time. I think first of all, with great AI, open models, it's great for the whole industry. Obviously, when there's more, if there's great AI, even if it's open, wherever it comes from, there'll be more use. Whenever there's more use, you'll have to sell a lot more NVIDIA computers
That's not our goal, you know. Our goal is our goal is simply if you need to build your own custom models and custom AI, we could be of service to you to help you do that. With with the right harness, these harnesses are, for example, open large or code, for example, is a harness around the open AI models. And so, the large language models, the brain, the harness to be well turned into an agent and into thinking, working agent that can help you do things. And so, with the right harness, NVIDIA's neural is extraordinarily good, and you could adapt, customize it for the certain skills that you have in mind, and it could be completely world class. What are the economics for the proprietary labs? If open source models, not just Chinese ones, can produce open intelligence, cheap, fantastic. Really, really, what the what the world needs is more people who need AI, and the the only way that you need AI is because you try it and you realize you want better ones. And you know these free services and build it yourself AI's. It's not for everybody, you know. However, once you try the ones, you realize it's so clumsy, so much work. So you think that open AI and proprietary should not be afraid of open model? Not at all, not at all. I think that that what we need, what they need more than anything, is for the whole world to realize they need AI. And the way that people want to have better AI is they try AI today and they just realize it'd be nice for somebody else to help me serve it. It's no different than cloud services. It's no different than search. It's no different than databases in the cloud. You know that we can run our own search. What a hassle! It we can in fact build our own computers. Why don't we just use it in the cloud? There are a lot of things we could do. That's more cost effective, but it's in fact more convenient to use it when it's in proprietary open AI. I would also argue that for a lot of people and for a lot of companies, even if if free if the models free, it still costs you more to operate yourself. You might as well have somebody else do it for you. And so, I I think whether it's whether it's just more accessible, it's going to be better. You know, however, you think about the
Do, you know? It's not. It wasn't. It wasn't, a far reach to imagine that, that AI can generate videos that are photorealistic and so lifelike. It isn't so beyond imagination that that AI can generate text, and from that it can reason. From that it can, essentially write code, and and so the things that the things that that AI is doing is fairly consistent with what I expected to be able to do. That it could drive cars, that it could, move around and manipulate things, pick up things, and that essentially, you know, manufacture these computers autonomously, and all of those capabilities, I've largely imagined. I think the the the part that the the market the industry is deciding these to realize is that while we're automating all of these different tasks, it's actually increasing the amount of jobs that the world needs, and it's very sensible to me. You know, a lot of people have said that AI is going to eliminate jobs. That is going to make so that we don't have to work at all. It's exactly the opposite, and the reason for that is, you know, just first of all, give you the evidence: the number of radiologists in the world is increasing substantially, some twenty percent, I understand. And the reason for that is because the studying of the radiology scans has become completely automated by AI. But as a result, they could see a lot more patients, and because there are so many people who who needs care, the number of patients they can now bring to the hospitals has increased dramatically, which results in having needing more radiologists. This is the same with paralegals. Apparently, the number of paralegals is increased by some ten percent. And the reason for that is while they're using AI, the number of cases they could see has increased, and there's so many cases back backlogged that now they need a lot more radiol a lot more paralegals to be able to see all these different clients. This is happening all over. The number of manufacturing jobs has increased some fifty percent in the last several years because these computers have to go into these AI data centers, which generate the token, the intelligence, and because that's in such great demand, the number of manufacturing jobs has gone up. So when you think about AI across the whole industry, jobs are being created everywhere. So one more on what blew your hair back with the anthrop
Makes it possible, and this is this the American dream. Is almost anything possible? Yeah, may make it more possible. Like I was told by these is the nephews. Like great fortunes are going to be created on a laptop. I'll completely true. The number of startups that are being created today is growing extraordinarily fast. In the last six months, three hundred billion dollars has been invested into venture capital and into startups, just here in the United States. Three hundred billion dollars, all of that's creating new jobs, new companies. It's incredible. Now, Nvidia is facing the toughest headwind since the Great Recession close to twenty years ago. You got a market rout, China rising, the U.S. government looking to be more restrictive, bringing your engineers' mind to the job of the CEO. How do you navigate all that? Well, the world's changing every day, and just gotta stay alert. But I have every confidence that Nvidia and the United States are going to continue to thrive. You know, the confidence comes from not hope, but confidence comes from the fact that you're surrounded by amazing people. The country fundamentally wants to succeed, and it creates the conditions for entrepreneurs and innovators to do great work. And we're surrounded by amazing brilliant. We have incredible local market. We have just you know all all the recipes, all the ingredients necessary for for long term success, and and so I'm almost bullish as ever, confident as ever. The United States was supposed to be six months ahead of China in AI, not much margin for error. Now the tech world has been rocked by Chinese models that rival OpenAI's ChatGPT and Anthropic Claude. Has China caught up? Whether whether China has or not, I don't think it matters. And let me tell you why. I think first of all, the idea that it's a race with an endpoint, obviously, we're going to continue to use AI forever. The United States is going to be here for a long time. China is going to be here for a long time. We have to recognize that China has some of the largest population of science and math students in the world. If they manufacture anything, that's incredible. They manufacture math students incredibly, and so so they they they manufacture more AI researchers than the rest of the world combined. So the fact, so the fact that China is going to be extraordinary at this is a foregone conclusion. And the idea that we would hold China back is
New applications, all of that increase the number of demand opportunities and growth. And so I think the early evidence, several years into it, it's now 15 years into the era of AI. The evidence is abundantly clear. We're creating whole bunch of manufacturing jobs because AI requires industrial might. That's creating jobs in energy sector, in the chip sector, in the infrastructure sector, land power and shale. It's created a whole new slew of AI companies, and of course the industries that take advantage of AI, they're also growing. So, so AI is creating all kinds of jobs. Last one on China. You took a very realistic point of view about the strength that China will have. So are OpenAI and Anthropic two of your best customers in trouble? No, not even a little bit. Both companies are thriving. They're going to continue to grow. They're going to go public. These two companies will be the most successful IPOs in in human history. How is it possible that two companies that are only a few years old are worth trillion dollars? And so the idea that that you know AI being diffused, abundantly free AI being diffused all over industry, all over society, so that someone would like to have an off the shelf, incredibly built service instead of making their own AI, instead of hosting their own AI, to have that choice, I think is going to be fantastic. So, so I think the more AI is used, the more people use AI, the more people rely on AI, the more opportunity for OpenAI and Anthropic. So there's no scenario where China runs U. S. Companies off the road. No, no, no, zero possibility. This is the the American industry is too vibrant, too smart, too innovative, moved too fast. Whatever competition there is around the world, bring it on. The U. S. Is ready. After Kimi, the powerful Chinese model, dropped, investors dumped Nvidia shares. Chip stocks are down 18 percent in the past month. What's Wall Street getting wrong about the future of the AI build out? Well, free AI should be great for hardware. Free AI should be great for chips. Free AI should be great for data centers. So I think I think the the market just got it wrong. They got it wrong with DeepSeek. As you recall, when DeepSeek came out, our stock price was down some 30 percent. And I think it's
Industry, the new software industry, and in the future, every single industry will be capex heavier, not capex heavy, but capex heavier. Most industries today, most intelligent industries today, are capex light. That's just simply going to change. But what you get as a result is incredible intelligence, incredible productivity, incredible growth, and so the growth and the profitability and the prosperity that's going to come as a result of intelligence being manufactured is going to more than make up for more than make up for the capex that we're investing in today. We are laying the foundations, building the infrastructure, the largest industrial infrastructure build out in human history, so that we can build the foundation of industries in the future for the next generation. And so this is just the very beginning. Semiconductor is you have lived have always been a booming bust industry. Are we due for a bust? No, not for a while. And the reason for that is different. This time is different because this is not demand driven. This time is different because it's not cyc, it's not seasonal, it's not demand driven, meaning seasonal demand driven. This is industrially driven, meaning the fundamental technology of computers is changing. We need a whole new layer of infrastructure in in the world. We have energy, we have the internet, we have roads, we have rail railroads. We now need AI, the intelligence layer, built the infrastructure layer built on top of all of that, and this layer needs chips. You know, I believe we probably need our semiconductor industry to be somewhere between you know five to ten times larger than it is. It'll grow over the time, over the course of the next ten years, and so it is way too small today. For and the biggest reason why memory is such a shortage, and you know storage is such a shortage, um, optical interconnectors shortage, and packaging shortage, and of course, customized memory chips are shortage. So everything is in such short supply because it's not a cyclical nature. It's not demand from consumers. It's not because of anything like that. It's fundamental infrastructure related, and so the whole industry. Um, I think we need to build up the whole industry several more times. Your customers are selling hundreds of billions of dollars in debt to pay for your products. When does the party stop? When does your finance team start to worry about these deals? Um, we're not worried about these deals because of several
What is called embedding? It embeds knowledge. It embeds intelligence. And so that number, that token, that's being generated by this machine, is not a static number. It's not like pi. That number encodes smarter and smarter intelligence over time. And so surprisingly, that single number, not is a whole series of numbers, trillions and trillions of numbers. Those numbers are getting smarter and smarter over time. When they get smarter over time, they become more useful, more useful, more valuable. When they become more valuable, people pay more for it. And so I know that for most people, the concept of numbers is hard to be valuable. But this token, these numbers embed intelligence, and intelligence is getting smarter, smarter all all the time. Every industrial buildout in history is a bubble overinvestment. What is this generation bubble danger? The bubble will come someday. It's just not today. You know this is in the the very beginning of the buildout. In some five years, ten years, um, I it's very unlikely in the next five years. Um, five to ten. Yeah, it's very unlikely in the next five years, and and we'll see about the five to ten years. It just depends how fast we can build. Now the challenge, of course, is that the rate at which we can build the infrastructure is limited by physical things. Today, the industry could build faster, it could run faster, but we don't have enough chips, we don't have enough memory, we don't have enough land, power, we don't have enough construction workers to build data centers. We basically are constrained in every single direction in every single way. That constraint is good. That constraint is what holds the system back, so that gives us plenty of time to go build out these infrastructure. And so, you know, on the one hand, there's a great desire to invest the capex. On the other hand, the ability for that capex to land and turn into productive supercomputers, like this into AI factories, that is delayed because of all these different constraints. And so, I think it's it's going to push out, push out the the time when demand exceeds or supply exceeds demand for some time. Would you use Kimi, the Chinese open source model? Of course, it's smart. Of course, it's smart. Um, you you still have to make sure that that um you fine tune it,
Safe. You're just reminding yourself you have to make it safe. So we have to make sure that it's safe. We have to make sure that people understand the capabilities of this technology. We have to advance it in a way that's secure, safe, working, functionally, used in used in smart ways. It's our responsibility to do that. And so, so I think that that first of all, the warning is is well-heeded and make sure that that regulators and policymakers are are able to understand the nature of this technology. On the one hand, on the other hand, we want to encourage the American people to use this technology. We led this industrial revolution not because we invented all the technology, but because we applied it with such enthusiasm that this industrial revolution led to the United States. We need to make sure that we apply this technology with great enthusiasm in healthcare, which we know doctor and doctor and John Hopkins wrote that AI technology is helping advance the discovery of cancer a lot more quickly. We know what it's done for radiology. We know what it's doing for software engineering. Software engineering is the fundamental engine of intelligence today, and fundamental engine of automation and productivity today. And so we know all of the things that AI is helping us do that's incredibly for good. We know what it's able to do in helping us advance climate science and understanding the climate better. Because of AI, we're able to upgrade our national power grid. Because of AI, we're able to invest in sustainable energy without government subsidies. All of this is because of this particular industry, and so I think that we ought to be much more enthusiastic about it. Help the help the United States realize that the only way we get left behind, the only way we get left behind, is if we don't apply the technology. Forget who who who contributes and invents the technology. The fact that we don't apply it, that's how we're going to get left behind. And so let's make sure that we remind ourselves of how we became United States in this modern industrial revolution, and that we apply exactly the same enthusiasm, the same spirit, the same American spirit, so that we can lead the next one. Some of this burning opposition to AI has even turned violent. How are you starting to think about your own safety and security? I'm I'm in in a safe place. I I don't feel I don't feel endangered. And I I think that that mostly I think you you
Story, exactly. But it's not just a story; it's ground truth. Just tell people the facts. The facts are we're creating millions of jobs. So the industry needs to talk more differently about the reality. That's right. Don't create a don't create a narrative. Don't create a story that is made up. It is made up that there's going to be a singularity. It's made up that somehow we're living in a simulation. And these are all made up. You know, I think it's a fun story. I don't mind listening to it, and I I even enjoy enjoying the narrative. You know, when it's told by some and many of those leaders and my friends, and but we just all have to be thoughtful and careful. So we're scaring people and and wrongly. Yeah, separately from job, you're talking about this sort of creepy element of the technology, and you're saying there's a way to inoculate against that. That's right. Because they're they're just made up. They're science fiction. They're they're Hollywood. It's not true. It's not true. The closest thing to true AI is R2D2 and C3PO, and who doesn't want R2D2 and C3PO? You've developed a warm relationship with President Trump. Text. He's very responsive. What's it like to communicate with the president like that? He's smart. He remembers everything. Goodness gracious! He knows numbers, and he's the only the only president that has ever remembered age 20, age 200, and he is black. Well, he knows our next generation, Ruben. He has just an amazing memory, and we're sitting here in a new factory. On the first the first time I met him, he said he wants to restore the manufacturing capacity of the United States. He wants the United States to be to be industrialized. He wants a secure and resilient supply chain. He wants to move semiconductor manufacturing back to the United States. Literally, we're sitting in a plan that is a direct result of the first conversation I had with President Trump. This is in Fort Worth, Texas. We're in Fort Worth, Texas, and it is it is he's single-mindedly about creating jobs. He's single-mindedly about reshaping the American economy and and the labor force. He was in every single conversation I ever had with him.
Smart and good to work with on building the future. I I love working with every one of them. Susie's incredible. Susie Wells, the chief of staff. Yeah, secretary Beslin, secretary Lank. These are incredible people, and they dedicate they dedicate themselves to President Trump. They want to see his presidency successful, and we all do. You know, he's my president, and and I want my I want my president to be successful so that our country can be successful. Definitely, our signs that they're getting more restrictive. Looking heading that way, are you worried about that? Sure. And I would just, I would just add caution. And this is the administration, the president, any policymaker, all policymakers, before you listen to all the rhetoric, before you listen to all the stories, before you manifest some kind of artificial intelligence future that is just not true. Is not grounded in fact. It's completely fact science fiction. The technology is very important. Of course, the technology is powerful. I I am one of the people in the world that builds the technology. I, you know, the idea that somehow has consciousness, um, that's all made up. It's all complete nonsense. And it sounds like you are basically afraid the administration is going to fall for it. Overcorrect, overcorrect, because they fall for these narratives. I think that they had to be sure to talk to more people, talk to many CEOs, talk to many scientists. Don't talk to one or two. Don't make it. Don't don't make a knee-jerk reaction. Tomorrow is not the tomorrow is not impending. You know, and and you know, day that you have to make a decision. Be more informed. Take your time. Of course, be deliberate. Of course, be focused. Of course, be purposeful, and but be informed and and give give yourself lots of opportunity to talk to people. President Trump floated the idea of the government taking stakes in leading AI companies. You are one of the most valuable. You run one of the most valuable companies on earth. If President Trump called you and asked you for an equity stake, what would you say? It's unnecessary. The United States has an equity stake in you know us, and and Nvidia. It has a has a fantastic stake in our success. We pay ten billion dollars worth worth of taxes last year, and and we're going to pay a lot more taxes this year, and
They're highly capable open source models in the competitive market. It depends on the terms and conditions of the service, and if if the service provider is unhappy about some company taking advantage of exploiting the terms of their agreement and their license, they have to reach out to that company. And there's there are many ways to deal with that today. You know, we have a lot of conventional ways using laws and regulations to do so. However, distillation, learning from AI, learning from other other sources of knowledge is fundamental to intelligence. We're constantly learning from other people. I'm I'm learning from you, and just the questions you're asking, and you're learning from me. And all day long, we're learning from each other. And so AI has to learn from something. And so the original AI, no matter who it is, whether it's a closed model, it obviously scraped the internet of all of the previously learned knowledge. And now AI is generating more content than humans. You know, in another few more years, the internet would be 99 percent AI generated content, and that content is generated by some AI. And so you're constantly distilling the intelligence of some other AI's, anyways. And so the idea that that AI can learn, that's a good thing. We want AI to be smart. We want every AI to be smart, and a smart AI is safer AI. And so, so I I think the the the important thing is to to split these two ideas. Should AI be able to learn as much as they possibly can from as many sources of knowledge as they can? The answer is yes. Can AI violate privacy? No. Can AI violate terms and agreement? The answer is no. And if somebody violates a term and agreement, contact the company, take care of it. You have a lot of employees in Israel. How do you think about the Middle East AI build build out in the context of the war? Well, first of all, I'm concerned about my families in Israel. I have 6,500 families there, and they've been in the Middle Conflict for some time now. And and I'm happy that they're well. I wish them to be continued to be well, and I look forward to winning the conflict. This and the the UAE is investing in the Middle in the Middle East and AI. I think that's terrific. Are you still bullish on the UAE as a giant AI player? Yeah, they have a
If your task, if your job is the task, if your job is the task, then it's very likely that when that task is automated, um, your job will be will be eliminated or changed. And so, for example, customer service call centers that is that is a task that is very likely to be highly automated. Um, however, the management, the coordination, the improvement, the evaluation of all of the AIs that are now handling the the the actual calls itself um will likely continue to be a human oriented task. And and so, um, just remember that a job has a purpose, which includes many tasks. And so, one of my favorite examples is the original example about radiology. Radiologists have a task of studying scans, but the purpose is to end human suffering. Is to help people understand their disease, to help collaborate with other doctors to help identify the disease. And and so, the purpose doesn't change when the task has been automated. And something that I tell early career people in my life is: don't mistake your task for the job and the opportunity. That's right, exactly. That's exactly right. Hey, look, today most of the people in it in in technology sits in front of a keyboard typing. If we were to take a picture of this and look at it ten years, twenty years from now, it would look like that. The pictures we see of back in the old days of offices with people sitting in front of IBM's electric typing, and so um, we don't type typing is not the job. Solving problems, innovating, discovering impact, creating value, helping end human suffering, bringing joy in the light, whatever whatever whatever it is that your job purpose is doesn't fundamentally change because you don't have to type anymore. We don't have to type anymore. That's great. When do you expect the ChatGPT moment for robots when they'll be used and useful in the everyday lives of ordinary people? The ChatGPT moment in twenty twenty two was the moment that was not the moment that AI was useful. We had to wait another four years. ChatGPT moment was when we saw that it was interesting, that it did something surprising. And and so, if that's the case, then the ChatGPT moment of robots has already arrived. You could tell a robot, you know, um, I put the apple in the drawer, and the the robot will actually reason about what is the sequence of
Boarding school. It sounds like you've talked about. You were bullied, started, innovate at age thirty. You said the key to greatness is plenty of pain and suffering. What is the pain and suffering in your career that resulted in the most benefit, or that has allowed you to create and lead this company? Um, nothing. No, no great athlete just happens to be a great athlete. It's a lot of practice when nobody's watching. Um, a lot of setbacks, a lot of losing. I, you know, it's just a lot of pain and suffering, and and that that is really what elevates craft. It elevates character. Um, it gives you confidence. It gives you resilience. Allows you to handle very difficult challenges. Uh, you know, it's no different than when when athletes say that somehow time slows down when you're in the middle of doing something, when in zone, or when the pressure's high. Um, I feel the same way. You know, when when the stress is at this highest, when when tension is at this highest, I kind of feel like time slows down, and the reason for that it comes from practice. It can just come from doing something over and over again. Um, about managing your your own stress and managing your own focus and having the confidence to to realize you can work it through and being surrounded by amazing people and and so all of that is is a combination of you know that condition that leads to you being at something at a very high level, and so pain and suffering is necessary. What would you say to some nine-year-old Jensen who's abroad about coming to America? What to be excited about and what to watch out for? America is the greatest country in the world. Full stop. And it's the greatest country in the world not because we don't have our challenges, not because we don't have our disagreements. It's it's the greatest country in the world because because of all those great challenges, because of all those disagreements, we somehow managed to work it through, and and um through through uh open discourse, uh through a vibrant system that allows freedom, freedom to speak up, freedom to innovate, freedom to start something, uh freedom to collaborate and work with people. Uh, the the environment naturally attracts amazing minds. It naturally creates the condition for innovators and entrepreneurs and great researchers and great minds. Uh, it it it creates the condition for anybody with with desire to be able to make a
