What's up, guys? Your cavaliere at plainx.com. Today, I want to talk to you about a sunken chest or a more severe case of something called pectus excavatum. You see, that noticeable deformity in the lower chest that sinks in down in the lower sternum that really, really can be something not just psychologically tough for those that have it, but it can actually be physically impairing because it can sort of interfere with your ability to expand your lungs or even have your heart contract without beating against the sternum itself. So, what I want to do is sort of give you a game plan to number one figure out how severe is your sunken chest. Is it something simply that is cosmetic, or is it really kind of bordering more on that line of interfering with your physiology? So, what are we talking about? Well, let's look at a couple pictures. This picture right here, this will be what I call a mild form of this. Now, as a matter of fact, I actually don't have the best pectus development myself, and what we do sometimes confuse poor lower pectus development because of attachment with the sunken chest. So, if you look here at me, this pec here normally kind of makes a little hard left turn compared to this one that's a little bit more full. This is simply having this attachment further out of the sternum, then this, which makes this sort of look wider at the bottom and creates a little bit of a hole here in the in the the lower sternum. But that's something that again we can't change muscled attachment. What we can do is try our best to develop that. But this picture right here, this is definitely pectus excavatum. You can see a major hole here or sink, a sink in the bottom of the chest that can probably, in this case, start bordering on those physiological limitations I talked about in the beginning. If you have this, I'm going to tell you here right now, guys, and never bullshit you, and I tell you the truth. If it's this bad and it's actually making you more fatigued or it's getting in the way of your ability to do endurance events because of this limitation on lung lung expansion, you're probably going to have to look at surgical root. The good news is there's two procedures now. One of them is another procedure that actually go in and and and correct this almost
Contract in that position. So right here, the quality is always going to be better than quantity. And as I transition here to some of the other exercises that you want to do, focus on how I'm telling you to do this, and not just what to do. Because everybody always tells you what to do, but they don't tell you how. And the how is much more important because you're trying to create a long-term change. If you're not going to have a brace on here 24/7, you need to be able to do things that are going to have an impact on it. And guess what? You're likely going to have to own this program, meaning you're going to have to take ownership of the fact that your special circumstances require you to do much more than the average person who doesn't have this. But if you're okay with that, then that's cool. Because I'm going to show you exactly how that's done. When you bench press, let's hold off on creating mass as the major focus at this moment because you can always do that. This is more of a kind of a of a repetitive program that you would do three or four or five times a week in small doses. Why? Because we're trying to create that brace-like effect. So when I bench, as I pull the dumbbells down, you actually want to pull the dumbbells down and move the chest up, and pause at the bottom of the rep. And the same time, you're trying to pull your stomach in, contract your abs, because you want to make sure that whenever you're expanding your ribcage, you're getting a co-contraction of your abs at the same time. Because the sunkenness actually results in the sunken chest, but also the sunken stomach. You lose abs tightness and strength when you have pectoral scapulohumeral. So we want to be able to contract that, pull that in, and then lift the chest up. That will actually help to, you know, make the appearance of this start looking better. So when I do that on the bench press, I pull down and pull push out at the same time. It's literally active movement. I'm not just coming down here. I'm coming down and moving my chest up towards the ceiling as far as I possibly can, hanging out the bottom here, and then coming back up out of it. Again, this is not what
Again, hanging out at the bottom here. This is not meant to go to failure every single set. With the fact of overdoing your chest work because that's not how you build a bigger chest either. Got to give it a chance to recover. This is more that remedial stuff that you're doing on a consistent basis. Another exercise here. Got two left. But what we do is we take a dumbbell, single dumbbell, and we pull it up and across. So we're literally just adding from the arm this way up and across the body, trying to get a lift up and across. Okay, initiate the movement from the chest. You're not lifting with your front delt here. You're initiating with a contraction of the chest on the inside here. Okay, again, more longer duration work. Finally, we have a stomach vacuum. Now, the stomach vacuum is another exercise I went much more in depth on that. I'll link over here so that you can see the more of the nuances on it. But the good thing about the stomach vacuum is you are teaching yourself to again expand your rib cage and at the same time contract your abs and bring them in so we can create this differential here and try to as best we can try to cosmetically reverse that sunken chest. So here's the bottom line on all this: whether you have a minor case of pectoral escapism, whether you have just a little bit of a different attachment of the lower pectoral, create a wideness and sort of a sunkenness on the lower lower chest. Whether you have a severe case of pectoris, guys, there's a lot of things you can do to develop the rest of your body and don't let that define you. Don't ever let what you feel self-conscious about define you. I realize that when people say when they point themselves, they usually point right here in this particular case. This issue is right where you're pointing, so it sort of reinforces all those negative thoughts that you might have. But remember this, guys: everybody has something that holds them back, and there's always something you can do. Let it motivate you to do something about it. Let it motivate you to train the rest of your body to make people take notice of that instead. But you can do something about it. Whether you go down the surgical route and that's what helps you to fix that condition, whether you go down this route here and it helps with the minor
