It's kind of like handleble stuff. Maybe before I kill again. Sometimes I feel like an emergency room doctor. The American people were backed over by inflation. I would say that I stand my ground like Alexander Hamilton. Fire the fire the pawn. Scott Bessent, seventy ninth Treasury Secretary, proud, soft, real, winning. Once known as Wall Street's quiet killer, three deal making chops. Secretary Bessent, welcome to the Axios show. My great to be with you. Thanks for having us into the cash room. Understand, there used to be little cash in these vaults. There used to be cash in these vaults, and at one point the inauguration vault was in here. The Treasury is a great building. We got three museum offices. So we got Salmon Chase's office, he the finance, the civil war. I used to say for the Union, but I was corrected and said for the United States of America. Which allowed Abraham Lincoln to win against the Confederacy. We had the Johnson Week, where President Johnson actually worked after President Lincoln was assassinated because he wanted to give Mary Lincoln 30 days to move out of the White House. And then we had the Treasury's office, which also has vaults in it. Very so, Mr. Secretary, I want to have a real conversation. I'm going to be blunt. I won't bullshit you. We don't bullshit me. Is that work? We we can both the pull a BS line. You're in charge of the economy. It's time when many Americans are hurting, and they blame your boss, the president. A new AP poll says 17 percent fewer than 1.5 approve of the president's handling of the cost of living. One of the big issues that got him elected. We spent a lot of time together on the campaign trail. What happened to the golden age? Look, I I think is there. I think it's accelerating. I think the rent complaint is masking a lot of it, but Mike, I tell you what, we're not going to do. What's it's not just masking it. It's diverted. It's held back. Well, if you if you look at the numbers, they any of the numbers are quite strong, whether other than headline inflation, the the numbers are very strong. Look at the number gas is 441 a buck and 40 from the year ago. That headline inflation. That that headline inflation
We are having manufacturing Renaissance. We we are seeing the job gains go to Americans. We are seeing private sector jobs this time, other than government jobs, private sector jobs with higher wages. And the the energy shock will fade away. You became the economic face of the war with economic fury as you branded and Operation Economic Outcast has made your job a lot harder and made the chessboard you operate with much more difficult. So Secretary Minuchin and I went to school together. We know each other since we were seventeen. He kindly invited me out before I took this job, and he said, "What is going to surprise you the most is the amount of national security in the job, and it did. But now the with the Iranian operation, it really expanded. And I'll tell you that what we have is a very strong sequencing in the Iran conflict. So six weeks of kinetic conflict, and none would have been possible without the other six weeks. But you were hoping like you would have victory right here a shorter sequence. Well, is you know I'm not a chess player with chess, everything's on the board, and you you can mostly predict. You have a lot more sequences than you'd like to have. No, I I I I call in at the end, and I'm quite optimistic about what I see. But you know, I play backgammon, I play cards, and you got to you got to deal with what you're dealt. Okay, well, okay, but what I want to say is that we had kinetic, the we destroyed their navy, their air force, substantially depleted their drone and missile capability, destroyed their chances of rebuilding that. Then we went to the what the president calls the Iron Wall and the blockade, which we've never done before. And now we have Operation Economic Outcast, and we are isolating them economically like it's never happened before. Right now the score turns of barrels out of the street. U. S. About one point one billion are in zero for the first time in history. They since they started pumping oil, they will have no oil on the water this week. They will have no revenues. A real issue for the Treasury Secretary is how much of America's market gains and capital demand are all driven by the AI build out. Are we in a bubble? Some people would say it's the other way around. Some people would say, well, rates are high because of the capital demand from AI. And I I think
Most worried about from AI. Look, I think that one of the things I was worried about, two things. One, we cannot lose our lead to the Chinese. So one one of the portfolios that I also have is I managed the U.S. China relationship, and I can tell you that it would be very different if they had the lead in AI rather than us. Both from a capability point of view, how they would be using it, but more importantly, their willingness to discuss it. So my my counterpart, the vice premier, and I had a very good discussions, and we did more discussions in October or November, and we have a substantial lead there. Second, and then everyone else is way behind. But a lot of these Chinese models are very powerful, not as powerful as U.S. models, but yet something that's eighty, ninety percent powerful without guardrails. You know that can be imported anywhere in the world. So the vice premier and I talked about three areas of safety concern. So it would be out of control agents, not state actors with cyber or biologics. And are you going to reraise the idea that was floated of having some sort of communication between the two superpowers? Yeah, sure. You know, it's it's they will will see. I I do think that they what what are you going to propose? That that we have some kind of notification process, just just like. And do you think he'll go for that? I think so. I I think that they over the past sixty days have woke up to. I think that they didn't realize how powerful their open source models are. So you know that the open source models they do industrial distillation, which is a nice word for stealing, from from the U.S. models. Some of their models, I you know one of the very powerful models, Kimmy Kimmy thinks she is caught. Like Kimmy will tell you she is caught sometime. You know it's public, so I can talk about it. Kimmy sent back very helpful. Kimmy sent back some PLA weapons plans to Antrobic. So I think things like that have made the Chinese realize that this is a very powerful technology. So just to button that down, you think there'll be some agreement between China and the U.S. about a channel of communication if something goes wrong? Yes. And what about the capabilities of coming models? I think just as Gerald said today, and I am very aligned
Again, I think that the system is quite healthy, and I would be very surprised to see something of that scale. You're one of President Trump's most knowledgeable advisors on AI. My conversations with Wall Street, Silicon Valley—they both trust you. You're floated to be the AI czar, but you have a day job. After the midterm, can you see the administration being more activist, more interventionist on AI? Well, it depends on what you mean by activist and interventionist. That we want safe acceleration. Do you agree with David Sachs, the presidential advisor and Silicon investor, that worries of widespread AI harm are BS? I believe that we have to be prepared for every occasion, but on the other side, you know, I think that this alarmism without solutions by some some of the AI community that's not leadership. Well, it's not just some in the community; it's the CEOs are basically screaming for regulation, warning of losing control of AI. Well, then they should slow down. But it's you know, I mean, it's kind kind of like candle blowers stop me before I kill again. It seems like you do regulate AI companies, but for whatever reason, you don't brag about it. The administration reviews all the models by the Frontier Labs weeks before the release, does order pauses if they needed. Why not brag about that and say we're on it? Well, it's all voluntary right now, and except for one. You say right now. No, and and that it's all voluntary except for one instance. It has been voluntary. So if there were something disturbing and a lab, the kind of went against something that we've seen, then we would maintain the the right to intervene, just as we had to do once with the anthropic fable. And can you see that happening again? I think that having seen that one incident, that the the labs had been very cooperative, and we're seeing them. So it sounds like you think it may not be necessary to happen again. Well, it shouldn't be. Like it was a boundary. It was tested. It was a successful test, and we're actually seeing open AI hold back some of the models to do more testing on a voluntary basis. Last one on AI: If existing product liability laws are good enough to police AI, why not waive all regulations on all products and just rely on that? Again, you're very good article today. I think we're going to have to
The as we increase productivity, so we we are in a sense going to making the payment up front. We're seeing substantial capital usage, we're seeing natural resource usage, but as we complete the build out on the other side, it's going to be very disinflationary. Last month you told the markets I am the house now. They bet against you. They're peril. Do you regret saying I am the house now? No, because the house doesn't win every hand. The house plays percentages. The end. What what that I may be hurt some fragile egos or Wall Street. That I always had respect for the market, and I always try to look and think like what's the move after the move. That if you have an ego, you lose a lot of money. The market swept back. No, didn't. How did it swept back? That rates went up, but oil went up. That I I could say okay, yes, yesterday we had the you know we had the first full allocation since we have expanded treasury buybacks and rate collapse. That you know there's nothing causal there. It was it was constant. The Financial Times, probably your favorite paper, said best fails to break fever in U. S. Bond market. What did you learn from that? Well, I learned that the Financial Times is anti-American, anti-business, the and you know they they have a fever. They're constantly trying to create a problem for the U. S. But let's let's leave that disgraceful publication on the side. So they're fair to say no, not your favorite paper. It never was. But they they do have some excellent journalists. But what what I would say is that and again what what I've learned that everyone in the market knows you don't win every hand, but you win over time. Is everyone knows I'm a big basketball fan, big fan of John Wooden, big fan of Dean Smith, and how did they win? It's trust the process and put a good process in place. And like what we could see with bond yields, that I would be concerned if we were having some kind of idiosyncratic rise, it's been a global rise. That U. S. Market U. S. Bond performance since President Trump came in has been the best in the world. So we are not seeing people sell treasuries to buy German bonds or Japanese bonds. And like I said, that I can't control the
Say it was a hundred percent decision of the president. I never put my thumb on the scale. We had some great candidates, and as you said, I know Calvin for a couple decades. And we represent two very different powerful institutions. And the chair Walsh has talked about that maybe the Federal Reserve has taken some powers that Treasury traditionally had, pre-GSE. And remember, Chair Walsh was in the administration during Bush, and then he was also the youngest governor in the history of the Fed, so he was there for the financial crisis. He has great perspective on both sides, and I think for him, the president kept saying, "Sure, you don't want this job." And I said, "Sir, you know, I think to succeed, you have to been in the building before. So if you look, the you turned it down. If if you think about the three, the three, three for the finalists, they all been in the building before, which I think is a real. You start with the big league. If you understand the institution, so how's Chairman Walsh doing? Sorry, I I I think he he he's doing well. We we have traditionally Treasury Secretary and Fed Chair have breakfast every week. I had over forty breakfasts with Jay Powell, and I think these ones these are probably a little more cordial. Sorry, these breakfasts are probably a little warmer. Yeah, Chairman Powell and I have a very good good relationship, and we the the private we we talk about the events of the week. We talk talk about where we think the economy's heading. I'm fortunate that I think if I have my calls, he every day. I probably have a hundred calls to make. The Fed Chairy probably have three. So part part of my job is to make sure that he he can hear what's going on in the wider world, maybe the markets are saying. We we have large markets, he does have the New York Fed, and it's a very healthy back and forth. Secretary, you came to fame and fortune running hedge funds, but Steve Bannon, one of the most powerful mega podcasters, told me bestens my guy, best Treasury Secretary since Alexander Hamilton. In essence, we trust that Steve Bannon. How the hell did a hedge fund guy, former Democratic donor, manage George Soros's fortune become a mega darling? Well, a couple couple of things. First, Democratic donor, I made a couple of donations to Democrats. We stood with
You had the search for the new Fed chairman. How does that private sector mentality work in this bill? I think the American people go to work every day and work hard. Many of them work overtime. Many of them work on weekends. You know, like the history working on Sunday afternoons, Sunday evenings, and it took a lot to get this bill open on Sundays, so I could come in. Members of my team could come in. It just wasn't something the federal government does. So you're trying to get little lights, little he, literally the lights turned on and the doors unlocked. And there's this theory, one of the reasons that people now happy with government is you can get a ride in your car in or at your house in 40 minutes. You can get food in 22 minutes. You can get clothes or a book the next day. But the government's still moving slowly. And I think people want to see that the government is moving quickly. So you've tried to speed it up. We're trying to speed it up. We we have a performance attitude here. And one of the things that I say frequently, a great surprise for me, has been the career staff here at Treasury is fantastic. Fantastic. That many of them, the majority of them who I interact with, I would hire them in my private sector businesses. It's Thursday and it's 22 minutes. You can get clothes or a book the next day. But the government's still moving slowly. And I think people want to see that the government is moving quickly. So you've tried to speed it up. We're trying to speed it up. We we have a performance attitude here. And one of the things that I say frequently, a great surprise for me, has been the career staff here at Treasury is fantastic. Fantastic. That many of them, the majority of them who I interact with, I would hire them in my private sector businesses. It's Thursday and it's 22 minutes. You can get clothes or a book the next day. But the government's still moving slowly. And I think people want to see that the government is moving quickly. So you've tried to speed it up. We're trying to speed it up. We we have a performance attitude here. And one of the things that I say frequently, a great surprise for me, has been the career staff here at Treasury is fantastic. Fantastic. That many of them, the majority of them
For many workers, just like a four-one-k contribution, the employers can make up to a twenty-five hundred dollars contribution. In talking to administration officials for this interview, two themes kept coming up. One is they said you're the most competent cabinet member. Other people said you're the most volatile cabinet member. What kind of person sets you off? Well, let's go back. First of all, I think we have a great cabinet, and I think this the president assembled a different kind of cabinet. That when I question on the energy to be able to talk to secretary Burr and secretary Wright, both with substantial experience, secretary Rubio, people may forget he chaired the Senate Intelligence Committee. So for him to be the National Security Advisor or Secretary of State, and I don't think I'm the most well, I am far from the most well. Well, you've joked that dueling among Treasury secretaries, back to Alexander Hamilton, you have had some heated confrontations. Yeah, that I would say that I stand my ground like Alexander Hamilton, fired fired upon, and I always point out, did not end well for Treasury. The Alexander Hamilton era ended. So my my goal is not to duel, but it is to stand my ground. And if I think somebody, if I think someone is not following what the president wants, because I am here to do what the president and the states wants, and is not trying to do what is best for the American people. So fired when fired upon, fired when fired upon, do share a warning there. So, yes. You have a surprising biography. You belong to the French. You grew up in Charleston, South Carolina, with your family. Help start in the 1680s. Your family got into money trouble, and you got a job by nine. You had a job setting out deck chairs, beach chairs, beach chairs on the beach, and what? And as a busboy, so at age nine, I was getting debuting, I was getting tipped on, I was getting overtime. So when the president was economic policy no tax and tips, no tax and overtime, I was one of the biggest supporters. And you you grow up with a lot of agency at that point. I'd be a very different. Our family was affluent for a couple hundred years, and my dad had some bad breaks, and I'm a very different person from having got a paycheck the since I was nine years old and seeing working Americans up
Only spoken about it before too. I think maybe some of my career choices. Great thing about money management is there's a scorecard. It's not the maybe in sales, maybe in trading, maybe in relationship management. You there's a lot of subjectivity. That money management there's a scorecard. And you said President Trump chose me because he believes I'm the best candidate, not because of my sexual preference or your green eyes. Exactly. So I and I think that's one of the reasons we have such a great team that the the president makes his decisions all the time. You occasionally tell you tell me you know you're breaking one of your friends' hearts. They see you on TV and they want an intro, and we have to break the news to them. As we say goodbye, last year in the West Wing, you got heated with Elon Musk. It was the talk of the White House. What was that like? Again, I am a huge Elon fan, and in terms of what he was trying to do with government, very very supportive. And there was one there there was one turn that things were taking that we didn't agree on. And Elon was at the White House the other day for the big AI meeting. Have the two of you made up? Yeah, I mean that that's a good thing. I've often said that the we're we're kind of like a sports team. You you can have an argument in the locker room, but you go out in the field together, and you're all doing the same thing. So you know I've been in regular contact with Elon, and you know he's amazing. Like he he's he's taking us to Mars. Look what he's done with SpaceX and Starling, and you know all all these other things. Starling is great for the World Cup on a cross country flight. I can tell you that. Yep. Mr. Secretary, thank you for inviting us into the cash room, and thank you for joining the Axios show. Good. Hope you'll come back.
