I'm back with Rainer Pope, who is the CEO of MadX, which is a new AI chip company. Last time we were talking about what happens inside a data center. Now I understand what happens inside an AI chip. How does it actually work? For this lecture, by the way, I am actually a researcher at MadX. So hopefully, you have designed a good chip. So I'll start with sort of the very smallest fundamental unit of of of chip design, and we'll sort of build up into what an overall, like actual production chip, what they're comparing to that. At the very bottom level of a chip, the primitives that we work with are logic gates, which are very simple things like and or not, and then these are connected together by by wires that have to be laid out physically and physical traces on the chip. The main function that that AI chips want to compute is multiplication of matrices, and really inside that is the fundamental primitive is multiply accumulate, just like of pairs of numbers. So we're going to sort of demonstrate what that calculation looks like by hand, and then sort of infer what what the circuit would look like for that. It'll turn out to be sort of easiest if I do multiplication accumulate something like a a four bit number with another four bit number, and then we're going to the the actual clearest primitive is actually multiply accumulate, so is multiply these two terms, and then we're going to add in so product of these two terms, and then we're going to add in an eight bit number. And can I ask a very quick question? Why is this the natural primitive for you know whatever computation happens inside a computer? Yeah. So there's a few reasons for this. It's it's a little bit more efficient, but the the reason it's natural for AI chips is that if you look what's happening during a matrix multiply, the what is matrix multiply in very short is there's a for loop over i and over j, and over k of input i k plus equals to input i k times other input j k, and so multiply accumulate happens every single step of of matrix multiply. Makes sense. And then the other observation is that the precision will almost always be higher in the accumulation step than in the multiplication step. This may be specific to AI chips, but you're multiplying low precision numbers, but then when you accumulate, errors accumulate quickly, and so you need more precision here. So that's why we try to do a
So it's a five-way sum that we're going to want to compute. So, firstly, what logic gates take us to even get to this intermediate step? We need to produce all sixteen of these partial products. How do I produce one of these partial products? So, let's take this this number one, for example. Here, it is one. So, what was it? How do we produce this number by multiplying this number by this one over here? We can actually produce that by an gate. This this number is one if both this bit is one and this bit is one. If either of them is zero, then the multiplication of one times one of of zero times anything is zero. So, to produce all of this stuff, we end up consuming sixteen gates. Or, in the general case, if I were doing a like a p bit multiply times a q bit multiply, then this will be like p times q many gates. Exactly. Finally, sum them. Actually, most of the work is going to happen in the summing, and so let me describe sort of the other logic gate that we use here. And is almost the simplest logic gate that exists on a chip. It's it's it's almost the smallest. At the other extreme, typically the very largest logic gate that you will use is something called a full adder, and what this does is sort of it does like coming from software, you might think that a full adder like adds two bit numbers together. In this case, it just adds three single bit numbers together, and so you can think of it as like adding zero, one, and one together. Now, when I add these together, the result number zero, one, two, or three. So, I can express that in binary using just two bits. So, it it as input it has three bits, and as output it has has two bits, which in this case are one and like the number two in binary is one zero. So, so this is also known as a three-to-compressor because it takes three bits of input and produces two bits of output. The two inputs are an x and a binary, and then some carry that came in from like the sorry the the the three inputs are all all bits that are in the same sort of bit position, like three bits that are in a column here. Yeah, yeah. And then the two outputs, I have sort of drawn them vertically here and horizontally here to kind of match
And then writing out two numbers as output, keep going with this over and over and over again until eventually get like some just one single number coming out here, something like that. This is probably the wrong sum. So, so this approach that I described here, this is called a data multiplier, and this is sort of like the standard for how you do array efficient multiplication using full adders. Let's try and quantify the circuit size of this. So, we have got a sense of like how big things are that we can compare to them later. How many full adders do I do? I started with how many numbers? I have the sixteen partial products, which is the product of all of these terms with all of these terms, plus the eight terms I am adding here. So I started off with twenty four bits, and then I produced eight bits on the output eventually. And in every step, I was sort of crossing off three numbers and writing two numbers out as a result. And so, every single use of a full adder eliminates one of the bits here. And so, how many full adders must be there? Twenty four minus eight, so there were sixteen full adders in this circuit. In general, this is true in the general cases as well. There will be p times q many full adders in this circuit. We should write some logic about so the input bits twenty four is p times q plus p plus q. That's right, and the output bits is just p plus q, and so p times q plus p plus q minus p plus q equals p times q. That's right. So I think this explains sort of at least hints at the second reason why we chose to do a multiplier accumulate. First reason being that actually it shows up in matrix matrix multiplication, but second reason being it gives us a very slick p times q very simple algebra. So we've sort of described like this this whole procedure. Every single atomic step that we do here becomes a logic gate, and then sort of the wires connected together. Like when I had these three inputs that that I saw managed to produce these two outputs. Like if I think of mapping this to a physical device, it would be a wire runs sort of connecting all three of these things together into a logic gate that produces the output. Okay, so this is the the main primitive at different bits that that is the design and the chip. We can build up from here to how we use it to run all of the
More variable. This is a really big reason. So, in fact, NVIDIA made a change historically up until B one hundred or B two hundred. Every time you have the bit precision, you you double the the flop count. That ratio is exactly like for the reason you said because of this quadratic scaling. That ratio is actually slightly wrong. It should be like even bigger, even bigger speed up, and then you and you might otherwise think. NVIDIA's like product specs have sort of started doing that in B three hundred and beyond, where the F four is three times faster than the F eight. The F four x. Yeah, what I've shown here is like the simplest case of integer multiply. When you when you are dealing with floating pointers, you do an F four and F eight. There's this sort of other term which is the the the exponent that just complicates this calculation. So, what can we see already from this? Like, I think the the big observation you made is that there's this quadratic scaling with bit width, which which is like very effective and is the single reason why low precision arithmetic is worked so well for neural nets. But the other thing we're going to do now is we're going to compare sort of the area spent on the multiplication itself with all of the circuitry that is around it. So, we'll we'll walk back in time a little bit and and see how did GPUs, private tensor cores work, which is the same way as the way that CPUs work. In fact, so we just like where do we stick this multiply accumulate? So, generically, I'll just describe like CUDA core or CPU. You'll have some register file, which stores some entries. Maybe maybe it's like eight entries of of like in this case, I guess four bit numbers, but typically like thirty two bit numbers, something like that of which are numbers. So, this is the like inside the CUDA core. I'll have some register file of some depth, and then I will have my multiply accumulate. So, multiply and accumulate. So, circuit. And what it's going to do? It's going to like it's going to take three arbitrary registers from this register file before the multiply accumulate, and then write back to the register file. So, it's going to maybe write to this one, but it's able to read from this one, this one, and another random one. So, it'll take three inputs. So, this is the
So that you sort of you don't think of the hardware, you sort of just think like, oh, just like the array and something else that is sort of like in itself a quite complicated circuit. Yeah, I mean this is the first step of all of the hidden data movement costs. Right. Yeah. And so, like the thing, like we're just gonna like compare, like I have to pay this cost, and I've got one mark here, and then in fact I have two more copies of that for each of the three inputs to my multiply accumulate operation, and so I have this cost, which is like like three times n times p and gates over here, compared to this p times q, like sort of gates in the actual circuit that is doing the thing I care about. And if we plug in actual numbers, like this n being eight, like we get like twenty four, and p gates over just just in the data movement compared to like if q is four, like four times p gates just in the in the adder, multiplier adder. And three, where's the three coming from? Three different inputs here. Go ahead. So the case, like really, just what I'm hinting at here is that like all of this work, which scales like as as the size of the register file, and this is a very small register file, all of this work, just moving data from the register file to the to the to the logic unit, is many many times more expensive than the logic unit. Maybe helpful to just see what marks looks like. Maybe like two bit or four bit marks. Yeah, great. So we'll take some inputs. We'll we'll have maybe like we'll just do a two way marks. So we've got two different numbers. We've got these two inputs, and then we have a so the the inputs being selected between, and then we have a selector which says which either be like this one or or it could be I want the other one. So this is one hot encoding. So so this what we all start with, and then the output we want to produce, like let's focus on this case. So so this is the actual input we got. Yeah. We just want to produce this guy as as the result, and so like sort of very laboriously, what we do is we and this bit with all of these, and so produces like and this bit with this row, and likewise we and this bit with this
Like array is to sort of go two levels of loop up and and and bake this entire loop out here into hardware. And so the idea being that if we have a much bigger granularity fixed function piece of logic, maybe the taxes we pay on the input and output are much smaller. It sounds like you're suggesting that if you have if you go up one step in the in the matrix multiply loop, that there's some you you can tilt the balance more towards compute than communication. That's right. Sort of. There's two effects that we're going to take advantage of here. One is just that we can do more stuff before per every trip through a register file. And then the other thing we're going to take advantage of is, in fact, in in in some of this loop, we can take advantage of, for example, some certain things staying fixed. So let's sort of visually we're going to look at this matrix multiplication. So so this portion of the loop corresponds to a matrix vector multiplication. In fact, so we'll we'll take a matrix and multiply it by a vector. So how do we do this? We take every column gets multiplied by the vector and then summed. So we're going to sum sort of along columns. So the zero and three gets multiplied by the three and seven and gets summed, and then the one and two gets multiplied by the three and seven and gets summed. So there is a multiply accumulate associated with every single one of these entries in the matrix. So we'll just
