Continuous learning is terrible. It just so happens that everything that we had before is much worse. Actually, optimistic. I think this will work. I think it's tractable. I'm only sounding pessimistic because when I go on my Twitter timeline, I see all this stuff that makes no sense to me. A lot of this, I think, honestly, just a fun reading. We're not actually building animals. We're building ghosts. These sort of theoretical spirits entities because they're fully digital and they're kind of like mimicking humans and it's a different kind of intelligence. It's unusual because we're in intelligence explosion already and have been for decades. Everything is gradually being automated. Has been for hundreds of years. Don't write block posts. Don't do slides. Don't do any of that. Build the code. Arrange, get it to work. The only way to go otherwise is a mistake. If you have a perfect AI, maybe you can get extremely far. The genius of today, very sketchy surface of what humans can do. I think today I'm speaking with Andre Karpathy. Andre, why do you say that this will be the decade of agents, not the year of agents? Well, first of all, thank you for having me here, excited to be here. So the quote that you've just mentioned, it's the decade of agents. That's actually a reaction to an existing pre-existing quote. I should say. Where I think a lot of some labs are not sure who said this, but they were alluding to this being the year of agents with respect to all of them and how they were going to evolve. And I think I was triggered by that because I feel like there's some overpredictions going on in the industry. And in my mind, this is really a lot more accurately described as the decade of agents. Yeah. And we have some very early agents that are actually extremely impressive and that I use daily, you know, Claude, Codex, and so on. But I still feel like there's so much work to be done. And so I think my like my reaction is like, we'll be working with these things for decades and get better, and it's going to be wonderful. But I think I was just reacting to the timeline aspects of the of the implication. And would you think it will take a decade to accomplish? What are the bottlenecks? Well, actually, many work. So in my mind, I
Image classifier, or a neural machine translator, or something like that, and people became very slowly actually just basically kind of agents. I would say, and people started to think, okay, well, maybe we have to check more next to the visual cortex or something like that. But what about the other parts of the brain? How can we get a natural, like, full agent or full entity that can actually interact in the world? And I would say the Atari sort of deep reinforcement learning shift in two thousand thirteen. So, what was part of that early effort of agents in my mind? Because it was an attempt trying to get agents that not just perceive the world, but also take actions and interact, get rewards from environments. And at the time, this was Atari games, right? And I kind of feel like that was a misstep, actually. And it was a misstep, actually, even early open AI that was part of course kind of dead because at that time, the zeitgeist was reinforcement learning environments, games, game playing, beat games, lots of different types of games. Open AI was doing a lot of that, so that was maybe like another like permanent part of. I would say AI were maybe for two or three or four years, everyone was doing reinforcement learning games, and basically was a little bit of a step. And when I was trying to do it, open AI was like I was always a little bit suspicious of games as being like the thing that would actually lead to AI because in my mind you want something like an accountant or like something that actually interacts with the real world, and I just didn't see how games can like adapt it. And so my project, for example, was within the scope of the universe project on an agent that was using keyboard and mouse to operate web pages, and I really wanted to have something that like interact with you know the actual digital world that can do knowledge work, and it just turned out that this was extremely early, way too early. So early that we should have been working on that, you know, because if you are just stumbling your way around and keyboarding and mouse clicking and trying to get rewards in these environments, your reward is too sparse, and you just won't learn, and you are going to burn the forest computing, and you'll never actually get something off the ground. And so what you are missing is this power of representation in the neural work. Yeah. And so, for example, today people are training
It basically has a very like history, is like we want to build animals, and actually, I think that would be wonderful. If we can get that to work, would be amazing. If there was a single like algorithm that you can just, you know, run on the internet and learn everything, that would be incredible. I almost expect that I am not actually sure that it exists, and that's certainly actually not what animals do, because animals have this evolutionary, right? And a lot of what we call learning is actually a lot more maturation of the brain, and I think there is actually very little reinforcement learning for animals, and I think a lot of the reinforcement learning is actually like more like motor tasks, is not intelligence tasks. So actually, kind of thing humans actually like really use a lot, roughly speaking, is what I would say. You realize that a lot of that intelligence is not motor tasks, right? Sorry, a lot of the reinforcement learning in my perspective would be things that are a lot more like motor-like, like simple kind of like tasks, throwing a hoop, something like that. But I don't think that humans use reinforcement learning for a lot of intelligence tasks like problem solving and so on. Interesting. That doesn't mean we don't have we we shouldn't do that for research, but I just feel like that's what animals do. I mean, take a second day just because there is a lot of different ideas. Maybe one more question I can ask to understand your perspective. So I think, yes, yes, evolution is doing the kind of thing that pretraining does in the sense of building something which can then understand the world. The difference I guess is that evolution has to be tied to the case of humans through through gigabytes of DNA, and so that's very unlike the ways of a model. I mean, literally, the ways of the model or brain, which obviously is not encoded in the the sperm DNA, or is not exists in the sperm DNA. So it has to be grown, and also the information for everything will sit in the brain, simply cannot exist in the gigabytes that exist in the DNA. Evolution seems to be defining the algorithm, which then does the lifetime learning. Now, maybe the lifetime learning is not analogous to our viewpoint. Is that compatible with the thing you are saying, or do you disagree with that? I think so. I would agree with you that there is some kind of compression going on. Obviously, the weights
The wrong thing about backprop. All that is happening in context—that's where we like the real intelligence you can like visibly see—and that in-context learning process is developed by gradient descent on pre-training, right? Like it's spontaneously meta-learning in-context learning, but the in-context learning itself is not gradient descent in the same way that our lifetime intelligence humans to be able to do things is conditioned by evolution. But our actual learning during our lifetime is like happening through some other process. I actually don't fully agree with that, but you continue. Actually, then I am very curious to understand how that knowledge is done. I think I'm hesitant to say that in-context learning is not gradient descent because I'm not doing explicit gradient descent. But I still think that so in-context learning basically it's pattern completion within a token window, right? And just turns out there's huge amount of patterns on the internet, and so your model kind of learns to complete the pattern. Yeah. And that inside the weights, the weights of the neural network are trying to discover patterns and complete the pattern, and there's some kind of adaptation that happens inside the neural network, right? Which is kind of magical and just falls out from internet just because there's a lot of patterns. I will say that there have been some papers that I found interesting that actually look at the mechanisms behind context learning, and I do think it's possible that context learning actually runs a small gradient descent loop internally in the layers of the neural network. And so I recall one paper in particular where they were doing linear regression actually using context learning. So basically, your input into the neural network are x y pairs, x y x y x y that happen to be on a line. Yeah. And then you do x, and you expect the y. Yeah. The neural network when you train it in this way actually does do does do linear regression. And normally, when you would run linear regression, you have a small gradient optimizer that basically looks at x y looks at error, calculates the gradient of the weights, and does the update for times. Just turns out that when they looked at the weights of that in-context learning algorithm, they actually found some analogies to to gradient descent mechanics. In fact, I think even the paper was stronger because they actually hard coded the weights of the neural network to do gradient descent through attention and all the internals of of the neural network. So I guess that's just my only pushback is that who knows how in
Sticking back, what is it the part about human intelligence that we like have most? Feel to replicate with these models? I almost feel like just just a lot of it. So maybe one way to think about it, I don't know if this is the the best way, but I almost kind of feel like again making these analogies, imperfect as they are. We stumble by with the transformer neural network, extremely powerful, very general. You can train transformers on audio or video or text or whatever you want, and just learn patterns, and they're very powerful and works really well. That to me almost indicates that this is kind of like some piece of cortical tissue. It's something like that because the cortex is famously very plastic. Well, you can rewire, you know, parts of brains, and there was extremely recent experiments with rewiring like visual cortex to auditory cortex and the animal like learning fine set. So I think that this is kind of like cortical tissue. I think when we're doing reasoning and planning inside the neural networks, so basically doing reasoning traces for thinking models, that's kind of the prefrontal cortex, and then I think we maybe those are like little check marks, but I still think there is many brain parts and nuclei there not explored. So maybe for example, there is a basal ganglia doing a very important learning when we fine tune the models and reinforcement learning, but you know where is like the hippocampus? Now, is that would be some parts are probably not important, maybe the cerebellum is like not important to condition. It's not, so we can skip some of it. But I still think there is, for example, the amygdala, all the emotions and instincts, and there is probably a bunch of other nuclei in the brain that are very ancient that I don't think we've like really replicated. I don't actually know that we should be pursuing, you know, the building of an analog of human brain. I am an engineer mostly at heart, but I still feel like maybe another way to answer the question is you are not going to hire the same as an intern, and it's missing a lot. It's because it comes with a lot of these cognitive deficits. We all intuitively feel when we talk to the models, and so it's just like not fully there yet. You can look at it as like not all the brain parts are checked off yet. This is maybe relevant to the question of thinking about how fast
Translation invariance in time. Right. So, ten years ago, we twenty fifteen. We had convolutional network primarily. Residual networks just came out. So, remarkably similar, I guess, but quite a bit different still. I mean, transformer was not around. You know, all the all these sort of like more modern tweaks on the transformer were not around. So maybe some of the things we can balance, I think, in ten years by translation invariance is we're still training giant neural networks with forward backward pass and update gradient descent. But maybe it looks a little bit different, and it's just everything is much bigger. Actually, recently I also went back all the way to nineteen eighty nine, which was kind of fun exercise for me few years ago, because I was reproducing Yann LeCun's nineteen eighty nine convolutional network, which was the first neural network ever trained via gradient descent, like modern neural network trained gradient descent on the given condition. And I was just interested in okay, how can modernize this? How much of this is algorithms? How much of this is data? How much of this progress is computing systems? And I was able to very quickly like half the learning rate, just knowing by time travel by thirty three years. So if I time travel by algorithms to thirty three years, I could adjust the Yann LeCun's in nineteen eighty nine and I could basically half the learning half the error. But to get further gains, I had to add a lot more data. I had like ten extra training set, and then I had to actually add more computational optimizations. Had to basically transform much longer with dropout and other regularization techniques, and so it's almost like all these things have to improve simultaneously. So, you know, we're probably going to have a lot more data. We're probably going to have a lot better hardware. We're probably going to have a lot better kernels and software. We're probably going to have better algorithms, and all of those. It's almost like no one of them is winning too much. All of them are surprisingly equal. And this has kind of been the trend for a while. So, I guess to answer maybe your question, I expect differences. Algorithms related to what's happening today, but I do also expect that some of the things that have stuck around for a very long time will probably still be there. Especially still giant neural network trained with gradient descent. I'll be my guess. It
Actually, build something from scratch. You are forced to come to terms with what you don't actually understand. You don't know that you don't understand it, and it always leads to deep understanding. And it's like just the only way to to build. It's like if I can't build it, I don't understand it. Is that fundamentally? I believe something along. I one hundred percent always believe this very strongly because there is all these like micro things that are just not properly arranged. You don't really have the knowledge; just think you have the knowledge. So don't write blocks, don't do slides, don't do any of that. Like build the code, arrange it, get it to work. It's the only way to go. Otherwise, you are missing knowledge. You tweeted out that coding models were actually very little help to you. Something, Mister Model, sorry. And I am curious why that was. Yeah, so the repository I guess I built it over period of about month and month. And I would say there is like three major classes of people trapped with code right now. Some people completely reject all elements, and they are just writing by scratch. I think that's probably not the right thing to do anymore. The intermediate part, which is where I am, is you still write a lot of things from scratch, but use the autocomplete that's basically available from these models. So when you start writing out little pieces, it will it will autocomplete for you, and you can just tap through. Most of the time, it's correct. Sometimes it's not, and you have to did, but you are still very much the sort architect of what you are writing. And then there is the you know, writing you know, I please implement this so that you know, and and let the model do it, and that's the agents. I do feel like the agents work in very specific things, and I would use them specific things, but again, these are all tools available to, and you have to like learn what they what they're good at and what they're not good at, and when to use them. So the agents are actually pretty good, for example, for doing boilerplate stuff, boilerplate code that's like just copy you know, just copy paste stuff. They're very good at. They're very good at stuff that occurs very often on the internet, because there is lots of examples within the training sets of these models. So,
Something I'm not as be as familiar with, so I think they're very helpful. There as well, yeah, because there's a ton of Rust code out there. The model's actually pretty good at it. I haven't known that much about it, so the models are very useful there. The reason I think this question is so interesting is because the main story people have about AI exploring and using super intelligence pretty rapidly is AI automating AI engineering and AI research. So they look at the fact that you can have code make an entire application, create applications from scratch, and be like, if you had this thing, people would be inside of open AI and DeepMind and everything. Well, just imagine the level of like, you know, a thousand of you or a million of you in parallel finding a little architectural tweaks. So it's quite interesting to hear you say that this is the thing that is essentially worst at, and it's quite relevant for us. Saying whether the AI 2027 AI explosion is likely to happen anytime soon, I think that's a good way of putting it, and I think you're getting some of my like my timeline a bit longer, you're right. I think yeah, they're not very good at code that hasn't never been written before. Yeah, it's like one way to put it, which is like what we're trying to achieve when we're building these models. Very naive question, but architectural tweaks that you're adding to an AI—they're in a paper somewhere, right? They might even be in a repo somewhere. So it's—is it—is it surprising that they aren't able to integrate that into whenever you're like, adding something or something, they do it the wrong way? It's—it's. I think they kind of know, they kind of know, but they don't fully know, and they don't know how to fully integrate into the repo and your style and your code and your place and some of the custom things that you're doing, and how fits all these assumptions very partially and all this kind of stuff. So I think they do have some knowledge, but. Um, they haven't got into the place where they can actually integrate, make sense of it, and so on. I do think that a lot of the stuff, by the way, continues to improve. So, um, I think currently probably state of the art model that I go to is the GPT-5 Pro, um,
And at the end of ten years, she finds that whether the business succeeded or failed, we see that she learned a bunch of wisdom and experience. But it's not because like the log proves every single thing that happened over the last ten years are upweighted or downweighted. It's something much more deliberate and rich is happening. What is the ML analogy and how does it compare to what we're doing with humans right now? Maybe the way it is, humans don't use reinforcement learning. As maybe as I said, I think they do something different, which is experience. So reinforcement learning is a lot worse than I think the average person thinks. Reinforcement learning is terrible. It just so happens that everything that we had before is much worse because previous were just imitating people. So all these issues. So in reinforcement learning, say working with you are solving a math problem. It's very simple. You are given a math problem and you are trying to find the solution. Now, in reinforcement learning, you will try a lot of things in parallel first. So you are given a problem, you try hundreds of different attempts. These attempts can be complex, right? They can be like, "Oh, let me try this, let me try that, this didn't work, that didn't work, etc." And then maybe you get an answer, and I check the back of the book and you see, okay, the correct answer is this, and then you can see that okay, this one, this one, and that one got the correct answer, but these other nine, seven of them didn't. So literally, what reinforcement learning does is go to the ones that worked really well, and every single thing you did along the way, every single token gets upweighted, of like do more of this. The problem that is, I mean, people will say that your estimator has high variance, but I mean, it's noisy, noisy. So basically, it kind of almost seems that every single little piece of the solution that you made, that righted right answer was correct. Think it, which is not true. I may have got down the wrong alleys until you write the right solution. Every single one of those incorrect things you did, as long as you got the correct solution, will be upweighted. As do more of this, it's terrible. Yeah, it's noisy. You've done all this work only to find a single. At the end, you get a
So process supervision is the fact that we're not going to have a reward function only at the very end. Yeah. Of after you've made 10 minutes of work, I'm not going to tell you that well or not. Well, I'm going to tell you everything step by the way how well you're doing. Um, and this is basically the reason we don't have that is it's not tricky how you do that properly. Um, because partial solutions you don't know how to sign credit. So when you get the right answer, it's just uh equality match to the answer. Very simple to implement. Yeah. If you're doing basically process supervision, how do you sign in automated way? Partial credit assignment. It's not easy to do it. Lots of labs I think are trying to do it with LLM judges. So basically, you get LLMs to try to do it. So you prompt the LLM, they look at a partial solution of student, how well do you think they're doing? The answer is this, and they try to prompt. Um, the reason that I think this is kind of tricky is quite subtle, and it's the fact that anytime you use LLM to assign reward, those LLMs are giant things with billions of parameters and are gameable. And if you're reinforcement learning with respect to them, you will find adversarial examples for your LLM judges almost guaranteed. You can't do this for too long. You do maybe 10 steps or 20 steps, maybe it will work, but you can't do 100 or 1, 000 because it's not obvious. Because I know understanding is not obvious, but basically the model will find little cracks. It will find all these like spurious things in the little crannies of the giant model and find a way to cheat it. So one example that's prominently in mind is, I think this I think this is probably public, but basically if you're using LLM judge for reward, so you just give a solution from a student, ask if the student did well or not. We were training with reinforcement learning against that reward function, and it worked really well. And then suddenly the reward became extremely large, like it was massive jump and it did perfect. And you're looking at it like, wow, this this means the student is perfect in all these problems, it's fully solved math. But actually, what's happening
It's predicting next token, and it's getting knowledge from that. That's not really what humans do, right? So, when you read a book, I almost don't even feel like the book is like exposition. I am supposed to be attending to and training on the book is a is a set of prompts for me to synthetic generation, or for you to get to a book club and talk about it with your friends. Yeah, and by manipulating that information, that you actually gain that knowledge. Yeah, and I think we have no equivalent of that again with LLMs. They don't really do that. I love to see during training some kind of stage that thinks through the material and tries to reconcile with what it already knows and thinks through for some amount of time and gets that to work. And so, there is no equivalent of any of this. This is all research. There is some subtle, very subtle that I think are very hard to understand. Reasons why it's not trivial. So, if I can just explain, why can we just synthetic generate and train on it? Well, because every synthetic example, like if I just give synthetic generation the model thinking about a book, you look at it and you like this looks great. Why can't I train on it? Well, you could try, but the model will actually get much worse if you continue trying, and that's because all the samples you get from models are silently collapsed. They're silently, it's not because if you look at any individual example of it, they occupy a very tiny manifold of the possible space of thoughts about content. So the LLMs when they come off, they're what we call collapsed. They collapse the distribution. If you sample one easy way to see it is go to ChatGPT and ask it tell me a joke. It only has like three jokes. It's not giving you the whole breadth of possible jokes. Yeah, it's giving you like it knows like three jokes. Yeah, they're silently collapsed. So basically, you are not getting the richness and diversity and entropy from these models as you would get from humans. So humans are a lot more sort of noisy, but at least they're not biased. They're not in statistical sense. They're not silently collapsed. They maintain much more entropy. So, how do you get synthetic generation to work despite the collapse and maintaining the entropy? Is a research problem. Just to make sure I understood, the reason that the collapse
Like seen before, the trees, yeah, and and we're not actually that good at memorization, which is actually a feature, because we're not that good at memorization. We actually are kind of forced to find patterns, and in more in more general sense, I think elephants, for in comparison, are extremely good at memorization. They will recite passages from all these training sources. You can give them completely nonsense, and they like you can take, you can hash some amount of text or something like that, you get completely random sequences. If you train on it, even just a single iteration or two, it can suddenly regenerate the entire thing, memorize it. There's no way a person can read a single sequence of random numbers and recite it. Yeah, and that's a feature, not a bug almost, because for these two, like only learn the generalizable components, whereas elephants are distracted by all the memory that they have of the pre-trained documents, and it's probably very distracting to them in a certain sense. So that's why when I talk about the cognitive core, I actually want to remove the memory, which is what we talked about. I have to have it, them have less memory, so that they have to look things up, and they only maintain the algorithms for like thought and the idea of experiment and all the cognitive loop of of acting. And this is also relevant to preventing model collapse. Let me think. I'm not sure. I think it's almost like a paradox. It's almost like the models are way too good at memorization, and somehow we should we should remove that. And I think people people are much worse, but it's a good thing. What is the solution to model collapse? I mean, you there's very naive things you could attempt, just like the distribution over the words should be wider or something like that. There's many naive things you could try. What ends up being the problem with the naive approaches? Yeah, I think that's a great question. I mean, you can imagine having a regularization for entropy and that. I guess they just the more because will appear, because right now like the models are collapsed. But I will say most of the tasks we want of them don't actually demand the diversity. It's probably the answer about going on, and so it's just that the model, the frontier labs are trying to make models useful, and I kind of just feel like the diversity of the outputs
You are going to get like tens of millions, or millions. No, because I actually think that the training data. So here is the issue: the training data is the internet, which is really terrible. There is a huge amount of things to be made because the internet is terrible. Like, if actually, and even the internet. When you and I think of the internet, you are thinking of like a Wall Street Journal, or that's not what this is. When you actually look at a pre-training dataset in a research lab, and you look at a random internet document, it's total garbage. Like, I don't even know how to swear at all. It's some like stock ticker symbols. It's a huge amount of slop and garbage from like all the kernels of the internet. It's not like your Wall Street Journal article; it's extremely rare. So I almost feel like because the internet is so terrible, we actually have to sort of build really big models to compress all that. Most of that compression is memory work instead of cognitive work. What are you saying? But we really want the cognitive part, actually, the memory part. Right. And then, so what I was saying is like we need intelligent models to help us refine even the pre-training set to just narrow down to the cognitive components, and then I think get away with a much smaller model because it's much better data set, and you could train on it. But probably not train directly on it. Probably still from much better models, but why is it still version still billion? Is the biggest thing we're curious about. I just feel like this is much extremely well. So almost every small model, if you have a small model, it's almost certainly still. Why would you train on? Why is it still not in ten years not getting below one billion? Are you thinking it should be smaller? Yeah, one billion. I mean, come on, right? At some point, it should take at least a billion knobs to do something interesting. You are thinking it should be even smaller. Yeah, I mean, just if you look at the trend over the last two years, just finding, looking through, and going from like trillion models are like literally two orders of magnitude smaller. In a matter of two years, and having better performance. Yeah, yeah. If anything, the sort of like core of intelligence might be even way, way smaller, like plenty of room at the bottom to better performance.
Then they went to college with our, and they're going to be like that one, or then they were horizon laying. So maybe they can do task taking minutes, they can do autonomous, then they can autonomous do task taking hour, human hour, human week, etc. How do you think about what is the relevant y-axis here? What is the how should we think about how AI is making progress? So I guess I have two answers to that. Number one, I'm almost tempted to answer the question entirely because again, like I see this as an extension of computing. Have we talked about like how to chart progress in computing, or how do you chart progress in computing since 1970s or whatever? What is the x-axis? So I kind of feel like the question is kind of like funny from that perspective a little bit, but I will say I guess like when people talk about AI and the original AGI and how we spoke about it when we were opening our story, AGI was a system you can go to that can do any task that is kind of mentally valuable, any mentally valuable task at human performance or better. Okay, so it was that definition, and I was pretty happy with that at time. And I kind of feel like I've talked to that definition forever, and then people have made up all kinds of other definitions. But I, I like, I feel like I like that definition. Now number one, the first concession that people made all the time is they just take out all the physical stuff because we're just talking about digital knowledge work. I feel like that's a pretty major concession compared to the original definition, which was like any task human can do, like can do things such as like AI can do obviously. So okay, but we'll take it. What fraction of the economy are we taking away by saying only knowledge work? I don't actually know the number. I feel like it's about 10 to 20 percent. If I had to guess, is it's only knowledge work, like someone could work from home from tasks, something like that. I still think it's a really large market, like what is the size of the economy and what is 10 to 20 percent? I'm still talking about trillion dollars of even in US of market share, almost or like work. So it's still a very massive market. So but I guess like going back to definition, I guess what I would be
It was the case with, like, with radiology, where the person's in the front of the Uber or in front of the waymo has to be specially trained for years in order to be able to ride the last one percent. The wages should go go up tremendously because, like, the one the one thing bottlenecking wide deployment. So, radiology, I think the wages have gone up for similar reasons. If you are like the last bottleneck, you should you are like, and you are not fundable, which, like, you know, we might never be fundable with that things. Um, so you might see this thing where, like, your wages go like, and then the next person, and then like, just like that, and I see the last one percent is gone. I see. Um, and I wonder if we're similar things with radiology or salaries of call center workers or anything like that. Yeah, I think that's a interesting question. I don't think we're currently seeing that with radiology, or and I don't have like in my understand, but I think radiology is not an example. Basically, I don't know why I've been picked on radiology because I think it's an extremely messy, messy, complicated profession. Yeah, so I would be a lot more interested in what's happening with call center employees, for example, because I would expect a lot of the roads to be automated today, and I don't have first level access to it, but maybe I would be looking for trends of what's happening with the call center employees. Maybe some of the things I would also expect is maybe they are swapping AI, but then I would still wait for a year or two because I would potentially expect them to pull pull back and actually hire some of the people. I think t here is been evidence that that's already been happening in the generally in the companies that have been adopting AI, which is quite surprising. Yeah, and I also find a very surprising, okay, AI right, like a thing which do everything and can also do physical work. So, thing which should be able to do all knowledge work, and you would naively anticipate that the way this revolution happening is like you take a little task that consultant is doing, you take that out of the bucket, you take a little task that accountant is doing, you take that out of the bucket, and then you are just doing this across all knowledge work. But instead,
Like, you know, trivial whatever, yeah, and he just could not get them to make hard to understand. So I find it striking that even in language domains, it's actually very hard to get a lot of economic value out of these models. Separated from coding, I don't know what what explains it. Yeah, I think I think that makes sense. I mean, I would say, yeah, there. I'm not saying that anything text is trivial, right? I do think that code is like it's pretty structured. Text is a lot more flowery, and there's a lot more like like entropy in text. I would say I don't know how also put it, and also, coding code is hard, and so people sort of feel quite empowered by all of this, even from like simple, simple code knowledge. I basically I don't actually know that I have a very good answer. I mean, obviously, text makes it much much easier, maybe, maybe why why I put it, but doesn't mean that all text is trivial. How do you think about superintelligence? Do you expect to feel qualitatively different from normal humans or human companies? I guess I think I see it as like a progression of automation in society, right? And again, like extrapolating the trend of computing, I just feel like there will be a gradual automation of a lot of things. Superintelligence will be sort of like the extrapolation of that. So I do think we expect more and more autonomous entities over time that are doing a lot of the digital work and eventually even the physical work, probably some time later. But basically, I see it as just automation, roughly speaking. I guess automation includes the things humans can already do, and superintelligence includes the things humans well, but some of the things that people do is invent new things, which I would just put into the automation. That makes sense. Yeah, but I guess maybe less abstractly and more sort of like qualitatively. Do you expect anything to feel like okay, this because this thing can either think faster or has too many copies, or the copies get merged back in themselves, or is quite much smarter? Any number of advantages that AI might have, it will qualitatively the civilization in which these AI exist will feel qualitatively different from humans. I think. I mean, it is fundamentally automation, but I mean, it will be like extremely foreign. I do think it will look really strange
Kind of replacement, yeah. At some point, if we have quadrature G, it should be able to do what you do. And you feel like having billions copies of you in parallel, resulting in huge speed of progress. Basically, if that does happen, would you do expect to see intelligence explosion, or even once we have quadrature G? Not talking about LLMs today, but I guess like what I mean is I do, but it's business as usual because we're in intelligence explosion already and have been for decades. When you look at GDP, basically the GDP curve that is an exponential way it's over so many aspects of industry. Everything is gradually being automated. Has been for hundreds of years. Industrial revolution, automation, physical components, tool building, and all this kind of stuff. Compilers are only software automation, etc. So I kind of feel like we've been recursively self-improving and exploding for for a long time. Maybe another way to see it is, I mean, Earth was a pretty. I mean, if you don't look at the biomechanics, it was a pretty boring place. I think it looked very similar if you just look from space, and Earth is spinning and then like in the middle of this like firecracker event, right? But we're seeing it as a motion. But I definitely feel like this is this is already happening for a long time, and again, like I don't see AI as like a distinct technology, but especially what has already been happening for a long time. It's you think it's going to continue with this hyper-exponential trend, and that's why like this is this was very interesting to me because I was trying to find AI in the GDP for a while. I felt that GDP should go up, but then I looked at some of the other technologies I thought were very transformative, like maybe computers or mobile phones, or etc. You can't find them in GDP. GDP is the same exponential, and it's just that even for example, the early iPhone didn't have the app store and didn't have all the bells and whistles that the modern iPhone has. So even though we think of two thousand eight was it when iPhone came out as like a major seismic change, it's actually not. Everything is like so spread out and so slowly fused that everything ends up being averaged up into the same exponential, and it's the exact same thing with computers. You can't find them in GDP.
Just sort of like just asking if you get 10 billion extra people on the planet. I mean, maybe a kind of point. I mean, number one, I'm actually pretty, pretty willing to be coming as one way or another on this point. But I will say, for example, computing is labor. Computing is labor. Computers like a lot of jobs disappear because computers are automating a bunch of digital information processing that you do not need human for. And so, computers are labor, and that has played out. And you know, self-driving cars, for example, is also like computers doing labor. So, like, I guess that's already been playing out. It's still business as usual. Yeah, I guess you have a machine which is spinning out more things like that at potentially faster pace. And so, we historically we have examples of the growth regime changing where, like, you went from you know point two percent growth to two percent growth. So it seems plausible to me that like a machine which is then spinning out the next self driving car and the next internet and whatever. I'm kind of yeah, I see where it's coming from at the same time. I do feel like people make this assumption of like, okay, we have got in a box and now it can do everything. It's just it will just won't look like that. It's gonna be it's gonna be able to do some other things. It's gonna fail at some other things. It's gonna be gradual into society and basically end up with the same pattern of production. Yeah, because because the assumption of suddenly having a completely different, fully flexible, fully general human in a box and we can just bend it arbitrarily problems in society, I I don't think that we will have this like discrete change. And um, and so I think we'll arrive at the same at the same kind of gradual fusion of the two industries. I I think what often ends up being misleading in these conversations, people, I don't like to use the word intelligence in this context because intelligence implies something like oh, super super intelligence will be sitting there will be single super intelligence sitting in a server and like divine coming up with new technologies and inventions that causes this explosion. And that's not what I'm imagining. What I'm imagining, 20 percent growth. I'm imagining that there is billions of you know basically like very smart human like minds potentially. Or that's all that's required. But the
On that viewpoint, yeah, I don't intuitively feel that viewpoint. You recommend Nick Lane's book to me, and on that basis, I also find it super interesting and very hum. And I actually have some questions about certain, but intelligence and evolutionary history. Now that you, over the last few years, are doing research, you maybe have a more tangible sense of what intelligence is, what it takes to develop it. Are you more or less surprised as result that evolution just sort of spontaneously stumbled upon it? I love Nick Lane's book by the way, so yeah, I was just listening to his podcast way up here with respect to intelligence and evolution. I do came it came fairly, I mean, very, very recent, right? I am surprised that it evolved. Yeah, I I find fascinating to think about all the worlds out there, like say, there is a thousand planets like Earth, and what they look like. I think Nick Lane was here talking about some early parts, right? Okay, he expects basically very similar life forms, roughly speaking, bacteria-like things, and most of them, yeah. And then there is a few breaks in there. I would expect that evolution of intelligence intuitively feels to me like it should be fairly relevant, and there have been animals for, I guess maybe you should base it on how long something something has existed. So, for example, bacteria have been around for two billion years, and nothing happened. Then going to humans is probably pretty hard because bacteria actually came up quite early in Earth's evolution or history. And so, I guess how long have we had animals? Maybe a couple hundred million years, like multi-layered animals that like long crocs, etc. Which is maybe ten percent of Earth's life, and something like that. So, maybe on that timescale is actually not not too tricky. I still feel like it's still surprising to me. I think intuitively that it evolved. I would maybe expect just a lot of like animal-like life forms doing animal-like things. The fact that you can get something that creates culture and knowledge, yeah, and it's really is is it is surprising to me. I guess there is there is actually a couple of interesting follow-ups. If you buy this, I would expect that actually the crocs of intelligence is animal intelligence. But the point is, if you get the squirrel, you are most of the way to AGI. Then we got the squirrel intelligence, I guess,
Be pointed at these niches and what's what's being incentivized. I still find it kind of miraculous that I don't. I would maybe expect things to get stuck on like animals with bigger muscles, you know. Yeah. Like going through intelligence actually really fascinating. Breaking point. The way where it is the reason it's so hard is it's a very tight line between being an situation where something is still important to learn that it's not just worth distilling the exact words, it's yeah directly back into your DNA versus it's not important enough to learn at all. Yeah. It has to be something which is like you have to to incentivize building the algorithm to learn. You have to incentivize some kind of adaptability. You actually want something that you actually want environments that are unpredictable, so evolution can bake your algorithms into your ways. A lot of um a lot of animals are basically pre-baked in this, and so humans have to figure out that time when they get born. And so maybe there was um you actually want these kinds of uh environments that actually change really rapidly or something like that where you can't foresee um what will work well. And so you actually put all that intelligence you create intelligence to figure it out that time. So going to put this interesting block. As we're saying, the reason the next sharp takeoff is um the so humans had the sharp takeoff where 5,000 years ago we still have had the kind of architecture that we have today, and 10,000 years ago I call revolution, modernity, dot dot dot. What was happening 5,000 years? We had to build this sort of like cultural scaffold where you can accumulate knowledge over generations. This is an ability that exists for free in the way we do training, where if you retrain a model, it's still I mean in many cases it's literally still, but they can be trained on each other, you know, they can be trained on the pre-trained training corpus. Um, they don't literally have to start from scratch. So there's this thing which it took humans a long time to get this cultural loop going, just comes for free with the way we do a lot of training. Um, yes, no, because LLMs don't really have the equivalent of culture, and maybe we're giving them way too much incentivizing not to create or something like that. But I guess like the evolution of culture and
Just a lot that looks really good, but I still think they don't really know what they're doing, and they don't really have the connection across all these little check boxes that we still have to collect. Yeah. So you've talked about how you were at Tesla leading self-driving from twenty seventeen to twenty twenty two, and then you first hand saw this progress from we went from cool demos to now thousands of cars out there actually autonomously driving. Why did that take a decade? Like, what was happening through that time? Yeah. So I would say one thing almost instantly also spectacular is this is not even near done. So in what ways am I getting to? I do think that self-driving is very interesting because it's definitely like where I get a lot of motivation because I spent five years on it, and it has this entire history where actually the first demos of self-driving go all the way to nineteen eighties. I you can see a demo from C and E in nineteen eighty six. T here is a truck that's driving itself on roads, but okay. Fast forward. I think when I was joining Tesla, I had I had a very early demo of a demo, and it basically gave me a perfect drive in two thousand two thousand fourteen or something like that. So perfect demo drive a decade ago, gave Tesla a lot of so because I had a friend who worked there, and I thought it was like very close, and then still took a long time. And I do think that some t here is for some kinds of tasks and jobs and so on, t here is a very large demo to product gap where the demo is very easy, but the product is very hard, and it's especially the case in cases like self-driving where the cost of failure is too high, right? Many and many industry tasks and jobs maybe don't have that property, but when you do have that property, that definitely increases the timelines. I do think that, for example, in software engineering, I do actually think that that property does exist. I think for a lot of writing doesn't, but I think if you are writing actual production grade code, I think that property should exist because any kind of mistake actually leads to security vulnerability or something like that, and millions and hundreds of millions of people's personal social security numbers are targeted or something like that, and so I do think that it is a case that in software people should be careful. Kind of like self-driving, like in self-driving,
Yeah, down the road this way, you don't need to train for it. The thing will have some understanding of how to respond to something like that. And these are things we're getting for free with our end-to-end today. So we don't have to solve these very basic representation problems. And so now deploying AI is a crossover domain. So it sort of be like deploying self-driving car with current models to a different city, which is hard, but not like a ten-year-long task. Yeah, basically, I'm not one hundred percent fully agree with that. I don't know that we're that much we're getting for free, and there's like a lot of gaps in understanding what we are getting. I'm definitely getting more generalizable intelligence and entity, whereas self-driving is a very special-purpose task that requires in some sense building special-purpose tasks may be even harder in certain sense because it doesn't like fall out from a general thing that you're doing at scale. In the next sense, so I still think that the analogy doesn't. I still don't know if it fully resonates because, like the elements are still pretty fallible, and I still think that there's a lot of gaps in that. It's still not be filled, and I don't think that we're getting like magical generalization completely out of the box, sort of in a certain sense. And the other aspect I want to also actually return to when I was in the in the beginning was self-driving cars are no longer done still. So even though so the deployment still are pretty minimal, right? So even way more so on has very few cars, and they're doing that roughly speaking because they're not economical, right? Because they build something that that isn't a feature, and so they had to like pull back feature, but they had to make it uneconomical, so they have all these like, you know, there's all these costs, not just marginal costs for those cars and their operation, maintenance, but also the capex of the entire thing. So making it economical still can be a slog I think for them. And then also I think when you look at these cars and there's no one driving, I also think it's a bit deceiving because there are actually very elaborate operation centers of people actually kind of like in loop with the cars. And I don't have the I don't have the full extent of it, but I think there's more human in loop
I definitely grant that. Bits are completely changeable, arbitrarily reshuffleable at very rapid speed, so you would expect a lot more, yeah, faster adaptation, also in the industry and so on. And then, what's the first one? The requirements. What is the requirements for models? I think that's roughly right. I mean, I also think that if we are talking about large work at scale, there will be some latent requirements, strictly speaking, because we, you know, we're going to have to make quite a huge amount of compute, yeah, to sort that. And then I think like the last aspect that I very briefly want to also talk about is like all the all the rest of it, the just all the rest of it. So, what does society think about it? What is the legal? How is it working legally? How is it working in insurance? Wise, who is really like what is the where where those layers of it? Aspect of it, what happens with? What is the equivalent of people putting a coin on a wheel? Yeah, you know, there is going to be equivalents of all that, and so I I think that I almost feel like software is a very nice analogy that you can borrow things from. Yeah, what is the equivalent of a coin on a car? What is the equivalent of a teleoperating worker who's like hitting a wheel? And almost like all the aspects of it. Yeah, do you have any opinions on why this implies the current demand out, which would like ten x the amount of available computer in the world than a year or two would, maybe like one hundred more than one hundred x by the end of decade. If the use of AI will be lower than the people nightly per day, does that mean that we're overbuilding compute, or do is that a separate question? Kind of like what happened with railroad? It's all this kind of stuff. What's the railroad? Sorry, yeah, yeah. There is like a historical precedent, or was it with telecommunication industry, right? Like prepaying the internet that only came like decades later, you know, creating like a whole bubble in the telecommunication industry in the late nineties, kind of thing. Yeah, so I don't know. I mean, I understand. I am sounding very pessimistic here. I am only doing that. I am actually optimistic. I think this will work. I think it's tractable. I am only
I haven't. Oh yeah, okay. So, clearly, the academy is this like elite institution for frontier technology, building spaces, and graduating that to be like the pilots of these spaces, no? So, I just imagine like an elite institution for technical knowledge, and and basically a kind of school that's very up to date and very like premier institution. A category question that's hard for you is just explaining how one teaches technical or scientific content. Well, because you are one of the role masters at it, and I'm curious both about how you think about it for content you already put out there, and you do. Yeah, but also to these new friends, how you think about it for you, yeah? Well, respect to you, I think like one thing that's very fascinating to me about education is like I do think educational pedagogy change with AI on the side, and I think it has to be rewired and changed to some extent. I still think that we're pretty early. I think there's going to be a lot of people who are going to try to do the obvious things, which is like having LLM and ask questions and get you know do all the basic things that you would do via prompting right now. I think it's helpful, but I still feel to me a bit slop, like slop. I like to do it properly, and I think the capabilities not there for what I would want. What I want is like an actual tutor experience. Maybe a prominent example in my mind is I was recently learning Korean, language learning, and I went through a phase where I was learning Korean by myself on the internet. I went through a phase where I was actually part of a small class in Korean, taking taking Korean with a bunch of other people, which was really fun. But we had a teacher and like ten people also taking Korean, and then I switched to one-on-one tutor. And I guess what's fascinating to me is I think I had a really good tutor, but I mean just thinking through like what the tutor was doing for me and how credible that experience was and how high the bar is for like what I actually want to build eventually, because I mean she was extremely instantly from a very short conversation understood like where I am as a student, what I know and don't know, and she was able to like precisely like the kinds of questions or things to understand my world model. No, I'll never do that for you 1
It's like the super simplified, full stack thing. If you give this artifact to someone, and they like look through it, they're learning a ton of stuff. Yeah. And so, it's giving you a lot of what I call you recast second. Yeah. Which is like understanding second. That's what I want. Lots of you recast second. And so, to me, this is technical problem of how do we build these ramps to knowledge. And so, I always think of you recast almost like it's not like maybe that different maybe through to some degree from T labs or some work that's going to be going on because I want to figure out how to build these from these ramps very efficiently so that people are never stuck and everything is always not too hard and not too not too trivial and you you have just the right material to actually progress. Yeah, so you're imagining the structure that instead of a tutor being able to like throw your understanding, if you have enough for and still throw yourself, you're never going to be stuck. You can like find the right answer between talking to the TA or talking to another and looking at our fundamental motivation. It sounds like automation or AI is actually not even like so far. It's actually the big fight here is you're able to explain AI hardfied yeah in the source material of the class, right? That's like fundamentally what the course is. And I think you always have to be calibrated to what the capability, what capability exists in the street. And I think a lot of people are going to pursue like oh, just ask ChatGPT, etc. But I think like right now, for example, if you go to ChatGPT and say, "Oh, teach me AI," there's no way it's like I'm going to give you some slap, right? Like when AI is never going to write natural chat, right now. But natural chat is a really useful I think in point. So I still I'm collaborating with AI to create all this material, so it is still fundamentally very helpful. Earlier on, I built a CS231 at Stanford, which was one of the earlier actually started. I think it was the first deep learning class at Stanford, which became very popular. And the difference in building out 231 and LLM1N now is quite stark because I feel really empowered by the LLMs that exist right now, but I'm very much in a loop.
Motivation wise, before AGI, motivation is very simple to solve because people want to make money, and this is how make money in history today. I think post AGI is a lot more interesting, possibly because yeah, everything is automated and there's nothing to do for anyone. Why would anyone go to school, etc. So I think I guess like I often say that pre AGI education is useful, post AGI education is fun, and in a similar way as people, for example, people go to gym today. Yeah. But we don't need the physical strength to manipulate heavy objects because we have machines that do that. Yeah. They still go to gym, why do they go to gym? Well, because it's fun, it's healthy, it's and it's and you look hot when you have a six pack. I don't know. Yeah. I guess like um, so I guess what I'm saying is um, it's attractive for people to do that, and it's and certain like very deep psychological evolutionary sense for humanity. Yeah. And so I kind of think that education will kind of play out in the same way, like you go to school, like you go to gym, um, and you'll and I think that right now I think not that many people learn because learning is hard. You bounce from material because and some people overcome that barrier, but for most people it's hard. Yeah. But I do think that we should. It's a technical problem to solve. It's a technical problem to do what my tutor did for me when I was learning Korean. I think it's tractable and solvable, and I think it's gonna make learning anything like trivial and desirable, and people do it for fun because it's trivial. If I had a trivial like that for any arbitrary piece of knowledge, I think it's gonna be so much easier to learn anything, and people will do it and do it for the same reasons they go to gym. I mean, that sounds different from using this post AGI. You're using this to basically as entertainment or as like a self betterment, but it sounded like you had a vision also that this education is relevant to keeping humanity in control of AI. I see. And they sound different and curious. Is it like it's entertaining for some people, but then empowerment for some others? How do you think about that? I think this. Um, so I do definitely feel like people will be.
Trying to make Olympics out of knowing stuff, yeah. Like, and and if you have a perfect AI tutor, maybe you can get extremely far. Yeah, almost feel like we're just barely the the the geniuses of today are barely scratching the surface of what human mind can do. I think. Yeah, I I love this. I also um, it's like I feel like the person who have like most product market fit is like me, because like my job involves having to learn different subjects every week, and I I am I am like very excited. If you can, I am similar for that matter. I mean, I you know a lot of people, for example, hate school and want to get out. I was I was actually I really liked school and loved learning things, etc. I wanted to stay in school, stayed all the way until PhD, and they wouldn't let me stay longer, so I went to industry. But I mean, basically, it's roughly speaking, I love I love learning, even for the sake of learning, but also love learning because it's more empowering and being useful. Yeah, I think you also made a point that we should also just spell out. I think what happened so far with online courses is that we haven't already and able to, and able everything to know everything. And I think they're just so motivated and because there is not obvious ramps and it's actually really stuck. And if you had instead this this thing basically a really good human tutor, it would just be such an love for motivation perspective. I think so, yeah, because it feels bad to bounce from material. Feels bad, good negative reward for thinking a amount of time and something and doesn't pan out, or like being completely bored because what you are getting is too easy or too hard. So I think, yeah, I think it when actually do properly learning feels good. Yeah, yeah, I think it's technical problem to get there, and I think for a while it's gonna be AI plus human collab, and then something maybe it's just AI. Can I ask some questions about teaching? Well, if you'd like to like give advice to another educator in another field that you are curious about, to make the kinds of YouTube tutorials you may maybe maybe especially interesting to talk about. I mean, you can't just like you can't just have somebody understanding by having them code something up or something. What advice would you give them? So
Just efficiency, yeah. Everything else is efficiency. And there is a huge amount of work to do. Efficiency, you know, you're tensoring them up, you try them, you make sure your kernels are frustrating, memory movement correct, etc. It's all just efficiency, roughly speaking. Yeah. But the core intellectual sort piece of neural training is micrograds hundred lines can understand it. You're chaining. It's recursive application of chain rule to derive the gradient relative to optimizing arbitrary differentiable function. So it's I love finding these like you know the smaller terms. Yeah. And sorting them and there on the platter and discovering them and I feel like education is like the most intellectually interesting thing because you have a tangle of understanding and you're trying to lay it out in a way that creates a ramp where everything only depends on the thing before it. And I find that this like you know untangling knowledge is just intellectually interesting as a cognitive task. Yeah. And so I love doing it personally, but I just find a fascination with trying to lay things out in a certain way, maybe that that helps me. It also just makes the learning experience so much more motivated. You you tutorial on the transformer begins with bygrams literally like a lookup table. Um, here's the word right now. Yeah. Or here's the previous word. Here's the next word, and it's literally just a lookup table. Yeah, the essence of it. Yeah. It's just a brilliant way, like okay, start with the lookup table and then go to a transformer, and each piece is motivated by which you add that, how you add the next thing. You could memorize this on a transformer level, but just like having an understanding of why this is right, every single piece is relevant. What problem solves? Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Presenting the pain before you present the solution. Yeah. And how clever is that? And you want to take the student through that progression. So there's a lot of like other small things like that that I think make it make it nice and engaging and interesting. And and you know, always prompting the student. There's there's a lot of small things like that that I think are you know important and a lot of good educators will do. Like how would you solve this? Like I'm not going to present the solution before you're gonna. Yes. That would be wasteful. That would be that's that's a little bit of
Experiment and you try this thing, and they have a way of just putting it conversationally, right? And just like perfectly, like why isn't that the answer? Exactly. This is coming from the perspective of how somebody who's trying to explain an idea should formulate it better. What is your advice as a student to other students, where if you don't have a compatriot who is doing the exposition of an idea, if you're reading a paper from somebody or reading a book, what strategies do you employ to learn material you're interested in in fields you're not an expert in? I don't actually know that I have like unique tips and tricks. To be honest, basically it's a it's it's kind of a painful process. But you know, like read draft one. I think like one thing that has always helped me quite a bit is I had a small tweet about this actually. So like learning things on demand is is pretty nice. Learning depth wise, I do feel like you need a bit of alternation of learning depth wise on demand. You're trying to achieve a certain project that you're going to get a reward from, and learning breadth wise, which is just oh, let's do whatever one on one, and here's all the things you might need, which is a lot of school does a lot of breadth wise learning, like oh, trust me, you'll need this later, you know, like kind of stuff. Like okay, I trust you, I'll learn it because I guess I need it. Yeah. But I love the kind of learning where you actually get a reward, yeah, doing something and you learn on demand. The other thing that I've found is extremely helpful is maybe this is an aspect where education is a bit more selfless because explaining things to people is a beautiful way to learn something more deeply. This happens to me all the time. I think it probably happens to other people too. Because I realize if I don't really understand something, I can't explain it, you know, and and I'm trying and I'm like actually actually I don't understand this, and so knowing to come to terms with that, and then you can go back and make sure you understood it, and so it fills these gaps of your understanding. It forces you to come to terms with them and to reconcile them. I love to explain things like that, and I think people should be doing that more as well. I think that forces you to
