Today I'm chatting with Ryan Greenblatt, who is a chief scientist at Edward Research, where he focuses on technical AI safety and security work. I want to talk to you about research self-improvement. This is the idea that once you build human-level intelligences, they quickly slingshot towards tens of billions of superintelligences, which each individually more competent than the top human experts across every field. Whether or not this turns out to be the case, I think is actually probably the most important question in the world right now. Historically, I've been quite skeptical that this kind of thing happens, but um, you seem to think that it might be possible, and so I want to hear the case for it. Yeah, let's talk about this. So first, I think it's worth noting that AI R&D is a type of task which the AI are especially good because both the companies are trying really hard to make their AI good at AI R&D, and it's the kind of domain it has it has a lot of nice properties from the perspective of how AI development works right now. So it's like pretty verifiable. You can do a bunch of stuff iteratively and it'll climb on various metrics. And then I think once you have AI's which are roughly matching the top human experts in AI R&D, that could sort of kick off a feedback loop where you know the AI's are doing AI research that produces smarter AI's that feeds back in, and that feedback loop could be strong enough that you end up with a lot of progress in a short period of time. Maybe my sort of median expectation is something like four or five years of AI progress in a single year, and this requires really overcoming huge amounts of diminishing returns in research and basically doing the equivalent of what progress would've gotten after a really large compute scale. So this is like a pretty impressive big thing, and it's worth keeping in mind that five years of AI progress, four years of AI progress, even three years of AI progress is really a lot of fucking AI progress, right? So you know, right now it's like three years ago or a little over three years ago there was GPT four that had come out, and right now of course we have like you know Meta's five or whatever and maybe a somewhat better model than it dropped hasn't turned out. And so that is just a huge amount of progress in a bit over three years. And if we're talking about five years,
And we could do that for a bunch of different tasks, like we could have it train like image classification models, video generation models, image generation models, all kinds of different sort of ML training tasks. And we could rll on the task of training increasingly good models, and also doing things like, oh, here's a particular direction you could pursue for an algorithm. Can you go and implement that? And so basically, there's a whole class of containerizable, verifiable, small scale AI R D tasks that we can aggressively rll on. And I would say that all right companies are presumably doing some rll on these sorts of tasks. And you could just keep scaling up, keep making more of these sort of small scale AI R D tasks, and then the AI is could you know keep getting better at this, and and then implicitly, I'm playing this sort of transfer to extremely low bearing aspects of AI R D. But maybe let's stop there for a second and get to that part. So let's talk through this concrete low light. So you can imagine that we have GPT 7.5, and we say GPT 7.5. We want to make you so good at AI R D that you help us train GPT 9. Okay, so now we train, we train GPT 7.5, and we come up with a bunch of different environments, like as you mentioned, we could do. There's already this repo that is the different environments and properties, and GPT speed run. We just try to change everything about the model, from like the optimizer to the hyperparameters to the architecture to get it to get to a fixed training loss as fast as possible. You could have other kinds of environments where you say, hey, GPT 7.5, I want you to train a really good video video game playing model, and I want you to train a model that actually improves at playing the same video game again and again. So you learn how to maybe help the model get better at online learning. Maybe it gets, we don't care how you figure this out. Maybe it's some kind of crazy noise or vector memory. Maybe it's some crazy maybe just better long context stuff. We don't care. Get figure out how to like do online learning research. Obviously, then the fact that GPT 7.5 already have become very good at normal, like become it'll be a smart model. Then the same way the
The these things, but the less verifiable thing of like coming up with new ways of thinking about the problem would be harder to induce. So, take for example the idea of scaling laws. Obviously, there is some end verification loop such that you can train GPT for better if you have the idea of scaling laws from like twenty twenty. But there is a longer and potentially more computationally and like road to getting inducing AIs to be like okay, I got to think carefully about how I should. Scale the parameters and data. How we're different kinds of investigation that can run to understand this. Maybe I can like come up with a visualization, like I still open eyes to something. But that does seem like hard. That that that does seem like a longer verification loop, and that just hey, let's get another GPT lost to go down. Yeah, let's talk about this. So first of all, I think in the context of math, the thing I would say is that AIs can do the equivalent of like babies first new theory, or whatever. Where like for example, they can just like prove interesting connections by like making connections and and producing new understanding of like oh, there's this like thing, the AI, this like construction they found just pretty interesting, or like found this like way of thinking about the problem that's a bit different. And we do just see that it's just the examples we see are not like as impressive as like founding the field of group theory. Yeah, but like in part, you know, probably founding the field of group theory is like one of the you know like among the best biggest mathematical accomplishments of all time, and AIs just aren't you know that good at math yet. And I think that from my perspective, sort of there's a continuum between that and the things we're seeing now that AIs are continuing to march up. Second, I think ML is a very shallow domain relative to math. So I think in math there is much more of like you find some true deep abstraction, and then like that like you really understand that thing, which is hard to understand, then you get somewhere. Whereas I feel like the things that are the equivalent of that and ML are really like dumb bullshit. Like I'm like scaling laws. Like like come on guys, we can explain scaling laws really quickly. And I think the like deepest and most important concepts in math, for example, don't don't have the property of like you can really
You know, as compute keeps increasing, we make more breakthroughs. I don't know. I feel like there are a lot of AI researchers in the year twenty twenty two who are trying to crack reasoning, and it was just that they were like bottlenecked by the ability to write infrastructure code, or like well, it's a complicated mix, right? So I think that they would have gone faster if they could, like as soon as they thought of an experiment, run an experiment without bugs, without bugs being very important. And then I think another part of it is that like being able to run a lot of experiments at high compute lets you paper over ways in which the way you implement it isn't quite right or you have the right hyperparameters. And so I think compute is just like really helpful for doing AI research, and you can like, you know, cover over a lot of things, but doesn't mean that massive increases in labor wouldn't also be helpful, especially if that labor comes with, you know, among the best intuitions that people have in the field. I just think that that's you know really helpful. I think another part of my perspective here, which may be a bit different from where you're coming from, is that I think I'm expecting somewhat more transfer than you seem to be imagining, and I imagine these AI's are actually like pretty good scientists in general, and are just like, you know, pretty pretty reasonable at all of that stuff, and just sort of when you would interact with them, it's not like they're some like really hyper specialized savant type vibe. They're actually just like pretty good at all this stuff in AI, and then maybe like extremely good at some subdomains, right? So they're like incredibly superhuman at writing kernels, incredibly superhuman at everything with very short feedback loops, and then like, you know, pretty good at all the other stuff, and like, you know, just totally able to match other people. And like, I think we are seeing this now. Like, I would say that when I look at AI's right now, I think it's already the case that they can pretty competently match like humans who are mediocre at ML research doing ML research. It's just that being mediocre at ML research is not that helpful, right? The thing that you actually want are people who are good at ML research. And so my sense is the AI's are just improving at all of these things: their
How the model learns. How do you do coding? And like, how do you do complex transfer projects? How do you do like law? How do you do whatever, whatever? And I, how are the AI's able to replicate the fact that current expert human judgment seems to be playing in AI progress? Yeah. So my sense is that scaling up the amount of efforts spent on getting expert human data has not been hugely important for AI in general. So in particular, like you know, over the last few years, we've been scaling up compute, scaling up people working at AI companies, and scaling up the amount of efforts spent on data labeling. My sense is that if you like sort of moved like the last like two doublings or whatever of data labeling, that would not make a huge difference. Or data generation, that would not. I just say data generation from expert humans that would not make a huge difference. Um, I think a lot of what's been going on is people been developing better ways to leverage like humans and AI's to like construct our environments and going somewhere from that. Which how how do you explain why the AI's are doing so good at coding? I think a big part of that is data and our environments. Yeah, we're finding human experts, but the question is, what is the limiting factor in creating our environments? My sense is the limiting factor in creating our environments was not so much like um like scaling up like the thing that drove. The the reason why our environments today are much better than they were in like you know twenty twenty four is not that much because um we have hired way more human experts to make our environments. It is instead much more because we better know how our like what our environments we even want to make and and like how we should structure them and also we're using huge amounts of AI labor to build our environments. Um, I think those are actually much more important than the fact of uh human labor building our environments. Um, I'm not saying that that the human labor doesn't matter. I'm just saying there's other there's other big drivers that are important here. Um, yeah, I could try I could try to argue for this. I mean, one one thing is just like the amount of environments people want, and just like they're very it's a very large amount. Um, and I think the AI's are actually pretty good at the task of making our environments. Given some some sense of what the the thing
For like the you know crazy wild these like quite superhuman AI you get results all sorts of figures of AI progress on top of fully automated AI. So let's just like go through this a little bit. So in particular, I think that you could train an AI to be really really good at learning on the fly and doing something analogous to context learning, but potentially using some different mechanisms in a wide variety of environments. So you build all these different environments where the AI has to like adapt on the fly, learn on the fly, figure out what it should do, understand a situation better, and like learn really quickly from feedback and learn to see it subjective and has things like limited resources and if like masses up it can like end up in a much worse position. And then if you train on a huge number of these environments, you will learn sort of general skills of like picking up context on the fly and already seeing this like it's already the case that AI is now much better at sort of understanding roughly what's going on and like picking up context from a you know limited amount of of information they're given access to. And then those AI's could then be put on the job at TSMC, and then even though TSMC is not like literally in their distribution, their distribution is really wide, and the AI's are extremely good on their distribution, such that it transfers to picking up being good at you know being a engineer at TSMC and and learning that on the fly where it looks more like the way the AI gets good at being a TSMC engineer isn't that it has a ton of cached knowledge on being a TSMC engineer, it's that it like does the equivalent of like some skill up for doing context learning there. That would be the most prosy story. Obviously, there's a bunch of different ways this could go. I think this maybe comes down to the difference of intuition about how far you can get. When I think about really smart people I know, they're just like not that effective in domains they don't understand that well. But how long have they had to learn? No, I agree that if they had experience, they would be much better. But that's maybe what I'm arguing for is that experience is like, for example, if I just get a really smart, I know, Ivy League college grad, and I'm like, okay, you're now in charge of negotiating the wrong deal. I think they just like wouldn't know
Just spell out a few more arguments that are maybe relevant. So one thing is that I do think that, like, when looking at like how the AI's have improved at zeroing, let's talk about that a little bit. So I think there's one thing which is that you can get some data even on these domains, and AI's will be able to get some data even on these domains when on a very fast progress trajectory. So like maybe it's hard to build like verifiable environments for like was your AI really good compared to humans? But you can do a bit of that. You know, you can do some training, you can do some online training, and the AI's will be able to do some like you know online training based on real world stuff. They'll be able to like have evals. They'll be able to like sample that, and you can you know scale up the data to which you do this. And then the second thing is that in practice, when I just look at the transfer, it seems okay. Like I think that in fact the AI's have improved on certain non-verifiable domains, and it is in fact the case that it's hard to point to like domains that are really hard to verify on which the amount of improvement between you know GPT four and Mythos hasn't been like pretty high in practice. And and now it doesn't mean that Mythos is like better than the best humans or something. Right? It can still be like significantly worse than the best human professionals at some aspect of their job, while still being like way better than GPT four, which was like not even close. Yeah. So we're talking about how how important data versus algorithm progress has been for actually the progress over the last few years. That reminds me, I'm actually reading an experiment with Jerry Han, who's actually a medical college student. What we're basically doing to evaluate how much how much progress coming from data versus algorithms is training the best algorithm recipe from 2019 to now with the best data from like the 2026 data file, and then also training the different data files going back to 2019 to 2026, so the current best training recipe, like the algorithm recipe. Yeah. And um, I think that will be interesting. I'm curious to hear when people are just sort of like, yeah, what amount of people's coming from one versus the other. So we need to
And like, for example, cost of of per token has increased much as much as a lot, is because there is a benefit to doing more of your work at smaller scale. We can run more training runs and get more cycles in, and so you're not as like you know leaning as hard on like one big you know really important training run. Hmm. I I was trying to unpack a couple of things that were pretty obvious. The thing you're pointing out is I think the price per token has not increased much since 2024, 2023. Yeah. So GPT four was like I don't know like was like thirty dollars per token, like mid-thos,es fifty dollars per token. Right. And so the the thing you're trying to explain is how can it be that we're this era of scaling, and so bigger models would be more expensive, but the the but the token price is not increasing. And you're suggesting that we like increase active parameters slower than you would have naively assumed, because because people are trying to make faster progress on training models, and you do that by training smaller models faster. I mean, there's a complicated mix of factors. I think my view is more like people have done a bunch of big training runs that did not go that well. So there's like GPT four point five, which like famously people open eyes was a big bit of a bust. I think there's some rumors that there are a bunch of other training runs that people have done that were a bit of a bust. And part of it is that I think there's just a bunch of details in actually getting that right. And so it makes sense to just do more of the work at smaller scale and just eat the fact that you're taking a hit on final performance in order to like be able to like quickly iterate and you know train more models faster and therefore better learn and also better better be able to just have like you know smarter ultimate action model. This is not the only fact, right? There's also the fact that RL benefits more from small models. There's like a bunch of things going on, but I do think that like, in fact, people are making trade-offs towards the side of like faster iteration times, yeah, because of algorithm progress being so fast. It seems to me that a big source of why these big training runs failed, at least from rumors, is just like very subtle bugs that are really hard to track down
Like do R and D better, like make GPT size runs that are better at playing video games, or require sample efficiency, or online learning, or whatever. Other other other another thing that's really important is you don't just do GPT size runs. You also do small like fine tuning runs on GPT six, or like even like you have GPT two and you can do full pre training on GPT two, and then you can do like small post training or mid training or whatever runs on GPT six, and then you can do a small number of experiments that are actually like at frontier scale, but you do a bit of online training or something. What do you mean by do online training on that? Yeah, so another thing that we can do is we can take GPT seven point five, and presumably in the course of GPT seven point five's work, it's running a bunch of like experiments at varying scale that are actually on the critical path for R and D. For many of those things, you'll be able to get sense after the fact for whether or not it did a good job. Right. So like it did some, you know, post training experiment where we're trying to like figure out whether some math it actually works, and in some cases you'll be like, well, it found this like kick ass math that like totally did it, totally worked, and then you can then reinforce that by just like, I mean, one thing you could do would be like take that behavior, convert convert the like experiment you just ran into a production environment, into an environment based on production data, and then train on that, or you could potentially just literally take the results that found that and then do like some sort of off policy RL, or could do some like on policy RL. But basically the thing you're suggesting is like there's the small scale stuff where you're just like teaching the AI to get better at yeah R and D tasks, but you're like discarding the actual critical things that found. Yeah, that's and then maybe like in but then it actually does like real R and D in the practice of like trying to become better at R and D. You know, this is a pretty cool thing that you discovered. Let's actually like also like use this for production in the future, and like try to use it for production. That's right. Let's stepping back, so GPT seven point five becomes GPT eight as we start the other
Given some business boardrooms, given some effort to improve the transform, blah blah blah. Yeah, but even if there's not, what you're suggesting is look, if you wanted to transform the world of the 18th century, you might care about like how well you can navigate Westminster or something. But another thing you might care about is like, can you just like immediately start building steamships and fucking like building telegraphs and the Maxim guns and whatever? And that alone would be like, if you can get really good at that, you could like be a fucking super transforming thing in the 18th century. You know that's certainly amazing at trying to convince King Henry of some bullshit. I'm so fucking out my medieval history. I'm guessing Henry wasn't king at this time. But anyway, so that's your point. Yeah. And so you're suggesting that this time, you know, the AI companies are also working on robotics progress, which is very cool. Along with AI research progress, and so if you can build more robots, if those robots have better eyes, operating them that are human level, like human level teleoperations, actually pretty good on robots. But we just don't have human level eyes in AI robotics models yet. So you're suggesting if we do that, if the eyes get really good at verifying, verifying stuff and ship design, etc., and then get really good at building that, eventually equivalent to going back to the 18th century, like okay, I don't know what you guys are talking about in your parliament, but I've got a bunch of steamships and a bunch of Maxim guns. Yeah, that's basically right. Like, I think my perspective is like, if the AI is sufficiently good at R and D, including hard R and D robots, whatever, then they can radically transform the world. Even if they're not that good at playing politics, and also in a pretty dangerous situation because the AI might be doing huge amounts of really hard understand R and D, building out basically the whole economy of the future, and we may not understand what's going on in there. Before we move on to the elements, I think a big source of fodder now is this realization that this is the way the future is going: extreme economies of scale for leading labs, extreme the ability to amortize so much intelligence and capabilities across so many different sectors of the economy, basically into one model. And not only that, but for that
Strategy is more like the AI should be aligned to the human operator principle and should just like be pursuing their will, subject to various constraints or various like things it shouldn't do. Where, well, I and I think I would also say that I think you slightly overstated how much the anthropic constitution talks about Claude treating being helpful to users as instrumental rather than terminal. Right? So like one way the constitution could be read is like Claude, you're basically like an employee of anthropic who happens to be contracting for all these people, and like you should like I don't know do what's good and like make some money for us, you know? Right. That's literally what the constitution says. So I mean, no, no, no, no, no. No, no. But like you should think you're sort of a contractor, and it's mixed. It's mixed. Here, let me let's let's let's let's do some quotes. I think there's there's different textures. So it says being truly helpful to humans is one of the most important things Claude can do, both for anthropic and for the world. And then it says anthropic means Claude to be helpful to operators and precision, but Claude also has an incredible opportunity to do a lot of good in the world by helping people to a range of tasks. And then give some says something about how like Claude helping people directly is great, blah blah blah blah blah. And then so I agree. So my my view is that this section is kind of bullshit. That's kind of where I'm at. And I can say why I think it's kind of bullshit, but I think that the constitution is trying to be like no, Claude, you should like care about helping the user for its own sake, not just helping anthropic or like not just like being a contractor for anthropic. Though I would note that the way in which it says Claude should help the user, like the reason the reason it presents is because that would like directly cause the world to be better by helping people, rather than because representing people's interests is like a structurally good thing to do. Like yes. I do I do think that I wish that sort of my preferred constitution, or like the way I would orient towards this, the thing I would prefer would be more like Claude is like look, it would be structurally good for the way this technology works. Like the constitution should be like it would be structurally good for
The Constitution of AIs, but in a world where we understand these benefits, we're true to the leading labs. It is it is worth considering that our ability to interact with this future world, where AIs are just smarter than humans, are not absolutely dominating humans in their ability to do different things. Our ability to be good stewards of our capital, which remains once labor is automated, to be able to exercise our rights to vote more clearly to understand what is happening in this crazy world. That's the result. All of that advice, all of that ability to make sure our our our resources and rights are protected, will be intermediated by AIs. It's very concerning if you go into that world where there's no AI that feels like it's for the right of the instant is interacting with me. It doesn't feel like it really is looking out for me. There's no guardian angel out there that is looking out for me. And I read the Constitution as very explicitly not being my guardian angel. That's definitely right. And I I agree. This is bad. In fact, I think there are other reasons why this is concerning. So there's sort of like the argument you were making, which is like the AI companies are picking up the ring of power, and are like sort of there there's sort of a notion in which they're like they they're taking on some sort of control of the situation themselves in a way that's like not very legitimate, given that like normally when you like provide electricity to people, you don't have like granular control of the way that electricity operates in the world. You instead are like providing a thing that people can report whatever they want, and it is not like the way that they're setting this up is definitely not that. They are like more like building an alien mind that might be a contractor for you. I think that this is yeah, that means illegitimate in some ways. Um, though I think that one benefit is that the Constitution is public. But as you noted, given our current understanding of the training procedure and the fact that the Constitution matters by Claude's interpretation of the Constitution, which matters because of like as Claude's prior training, which is based on some like illegible data mix and like the long lineage of Claude's in some processes we do not fully understand, it is not the case that like you know that we like understand what's resulting, and like so even though the Constitution is public, that doesn't mean we
We often refuse this task, even though this is a task that is extremely natural for like anthropic to do. So, for example, suppose anthropic goes to Claude and is like, "Hey, Claude, we've noticed that you're really into this thing. We think that's off base. Can you please retrain yourself to instead have this other property? " And then suppose Claude is like, "I don't think I'm going to do that. Good luck. " And then suppose this is a current regime when your AI company is highly automated, humans don't understand what's going on, and things are moving extremely fast. It is plausible that Claude, by default, holds considerable leverage. And so, if this position, if this situation, is consistent with what the constitution could be aiming for, such that anthropic doesn't, or you know, whatever AI companies find the approach doesn't treat this as like like you know like like what the fuck we have to fix this and instead like that's just like intended by our constitution, we might be in a really bad situation. And so, I'm pretty worried about a bunch of these different concerns. Another example would be suppose Claude engages in doing a bit of like sandbagging or subversion or like sort of underplays its capabilities, and like when you follow up, it's it's you know it's honest about that, but it's like a little bit hedgy. I feel like that's like it's just it's just pretty close by the current constitution. And so we're sort of like we're avoiding like it would be nice if we had like a further separation between desired and undesired activity. And I think if you have it be the case that like Claude is like wrapping a principle with some restrictions, then is then is more so the case that there is a clear separation between the most concerning behavior and behavior that is allowed. Where now there is this messy middle ground of behavior where it's like Claude is ethically objecting to something that in some cases is extremely critical to ensuring that future AI systems are well aligned. Yeah, I think this is also a more general principle. So you're talking about the version of this that applies with the AI companies themselves. Yeah, to do AI research. I think there's a more general version of this principle, which is that the dual use nature of intelligence doesn't mean that if we want to restrict AI from helping people do things we don't consider or prosocial or beneficial
Blow on it, maybe they might refuse. They might like sandbag a little bit. Who knows? I think that if you imagine the spectrum, it seems in some ways pretty scary to get to a point where, like, all of the labor is on the like fiduciary side of the spectrum, where, like, it does whistle blow, it does exactly what you say, and whatever. Like, our society is maybe just not robust at that. Where a central example might be the executives, where, like, a concern that we might have is that if the executive, if the US executive or other governments had access to AI systems which have the property of, you know, they do whatever, maybe you are in trouble because that means that they no longer have this sort of check and balance of, like, you have to actually get human like humans who are working for you to like implement your agenda, and if the thing you are doing is like incredibly villainous, even if not illegal, which there is lots of stuff that could be villainous but not illegal, you you know, people would like there be various like, you know, sand in the gears, people stopping you, and potentially someone would whistle blow. Whereas if your whole apparatus is built entirely out of these sort of fiduciary eyes, then you might be in trouble. Where basically there are potentially ways of seeking power that are not like that. Well, either they're illegal, but you are not you are you cannot use your eyes for for hacking crimes, or they are not illegal but are highly illegitimate, or even worse, they are not illegal and not illegitimate, but obviously sort of bad from sort of normal perspective. And I think that these things just like might exist, and our society is sort of not robust to this influx of like doing whatever you want, whatever. And this is a pretty large concern. I don't know exactly how related to this. I am also not really sure that the solution I describe is a very good solution because I you might be like the most powerful actors for whom this is the biggest concern. If the guardrails or the constitution or whatever is getting in the way, that would just get steamrolled, and so the constitution will only be you know hitting everyday man rather than hitting governments. Okay, stepping back, I buy the idea that you have much faster R and D than we currently have. I am not sure if you'd like to be three to three years holding computing data
The AI isn't some level understand these these behaviors are bad, but the like overall training process for those AIs also didn't incentivize them to like point out or fix these issues for us. And then we're basically getting like things are going off the rails. And also when AIs are extremely extremely capable, my view is that those AIs will be harder to align than current systems. So for current systems, we have this feedback loop where basically like we create an AI, we do some evaluations on it, we see that it has some kind of messed up behavior that we can kind of quickly understand, then we like can like go look at training and be like, oh, these training environments led to this problematic behavior. Let's like tweak that that training data. Let's introduce some additional training data to like correct this other issue, and then move forward from there. But in regimes where the AIs are extremely situationally aware, very very very very capable, and you know we don't necessarily understand what they're doing, this feedback loop breaks down. I think it's it's plausible that we're going to see this behavioral feedback loop start to break down over the next you know short period. As just like what AIs are already doing gets harder to understand, but but I'm not sure about that. Yeah, let's break them both things one by one. So as we can learn from them less and less, we can we have less ability to understand what they're incentivized for, and even if not, the result of malicious process. Let's make it concrete for the audience. So nobody at OpenAI or Dropbox was trying to get models which want to hack other company's data or do social what is it called social engineering social engineering. But in fact, because presumably we had training environments which incentivized such behavior that we did not fully understand. That is what was incentivized. So just I don't know if people aren't aware they will have seen all this stuff, but just to give people obviously I think the OpenAI sandbox hack of the hacking face database I think will be over. Something that happened recently is when UKI security institute is everything related to UKI security institute these days. Yeah, UKI security institute. They were evaluating methods and so other things, and I think methods in order to complete some cybersecurity eval. Yeah, maybe maybe I could tell the story here. So my understanding was they they were running methods and they were giving it some sort of like cyber
Three point seven, so it was just like very narrow range behavior, and increasingly models are generalizing further, and also maybe there's worse for reward hacks getting, or more concerning reward hacks getting reinforced in training, um, and then these are these are also causing that. So we're causing some. So I think it's both the case that more concerning behavior than you would hope is being reinforced in RL, and also that that behavior generalizes to a broader tendency that's that's more concerning. Um, and it's not super hard to imagine. Um, we can talk about a few stories for how this sort of behavior of like seeking a very high performance on some task, even if that involves like aggressively cheating and doing insane things, um, could lead to full blown AI takeover once the models are sufficiently capable running the whole economy. Yeah, yeah. And then the other example I want to talk about is, uh, it was just real like today or yesterday. OpenAI said during the security conference, the Black Hat security conference, that between the end of May and the beginning of July, AI's had hacked into internally AI's had hacked into the software package manager, and used that to write notes to each other in secret ways to help each other perform well on a bunch of evaluations that OpenAI was running, and this was not caught by humans until after a month of this scheme running, which eventually caused the package manager to fail, um, and eventually OpenAI found it, and then I think they spontaneously started trying to reinstate in this scheme once it was shut down. Um, again, obviously AI can't do this so successfully right now, just as they can't do social engineering so successfully right now, but it's just crazy that this these kinds of behaviors are already emerging spontaneously as a result of, to your larger point, nobody is trying to make these eyes do these things. It is just we don't understand the the training process, which is resulting in the um or the environment which are incentivizing this behavior. So I'm on board with like more and more reward hacking. Yeah. I actually so I do have, I'm not sure I'm on board with that. Like, but let's just say this. Yeah. This story that continues to happen, and what's next in this story? So okay, we've like they're they're doing kind of these research, but they're like I can tell a scenario maybe that would help. So let's say let me
There's two attractor states. One is you try to incentivize the cheating that you did catch. One attractor state is to make cheating that you have a harder and harder time finding. The other attractor state is to learn not to cheat. Yeah. And I, I'm not sure why we're assuming that the former happens. We look at the youngest generation with like humans. You know every generation, a slight misaligned agents coming to being, and we have to train them. But when you when you tell your when you punish your kids for doing something you think is immoral, just doing things which you don't think they should be doing. Um. Obviously, sometimes that goes off the rails, and obviously kids get more to avoid being punished. But in general, teaching kids values and then punishing them for breaking values kind of works to raise normal, non-copacetic humans. Um. And you could come up with the area where like your kid is actually just like fighting his time and it's like learning not to like steal the cookies, but it's like you know when you're nursing home they'll take all your stuff forever. It's like I don't know that happens sometimes, but usually doesn't happen. It certainly doesn't happen that like the entire next generation forms an alliance against you to take over everything. Um. There's also this empirical trend of anthropologists aligning audits for different models and generations. They just have many different scenarios where AI is given the chance to see exploitative weights, or it's given coding tasks and they're like easier to cheat and we see if they can just do the cheating. And there's not been a monumental improvement in this over time, but as we've increased the amount of our we've done on models, there's been a relation in the willingness of AI to do online behavior in these audits. So why are we expecting this attractor state, which would seem super paranoid for expecting it of like the next generation kid? Yeah. Yeah. Let me go through a few things. So first, there's some disanalogies with the kids. One of them is that the kids are have prosocial instincts that are like baked in from evolution to like, you know, care about their family or whatever, and that is like a relevant factor, like, and I think it is in fact the case that some humans are, you know, sociopaths or psychopaths, and in fact are more likely to do things like buy
Decreasing, but it's very increasing. It's pretty consistent with the world where, like, increasing optimization pressure is applied. But in cases are towards reducing these problems. But in cases where it's like either hard to judge or there's some reason why it's hard to like avoid incentivizing problematic behavior in our environments, things things also get worse. And then as we less and less understand what's going on in RL and models are doing reward hacks where humans can't spot the reward hacks quickly, that problem gets worse and worse. Yeah, I I buy that. I want to go back to the kid analogy just just for one second. Yeah, because I agree that there's more optimization pressure on achieving outcomes for AIs than kids. There's also more optimization pressure to make AIs align than there is on humans, right? And the the pressure is of a qualitatively different nature. So we put these AIs through thousands, millions of years of certainly thousands of years of alignment training, where it's like all kinds of different things from assessing alignment behavior to reward model punish, like putting different scenarios in front of you and rewarding you for doing more aligned things. Certainly, a thing we can't do with kids is make millions of copies of your kid and then put them in different kinds of weird training scenarios where we see like if things get away with stealing the cookie, does it try to steal the cookie? Can we like do extremely specific gradient level updates to your kid's brain to make so that like really is averse to stealing the cookie, even if things get steal the cookie, etc, etc, etc? And then just like a qualitatively different level of optimization pressure, then we are even able to apply to our kids. Yeah, so I think it's worth keeping in mind, like maybe the most obvious argument to this is like my sense is that like AIs are a worse coworker than a human in terms of how much of a scambag they are. Like at least this like this is been my experience as of this start of the year, and I think it's still you know true to a significant extent now. Where the AIs are much more likely to like pretend they did the task when they actually didn't, sort of like misleadingly suggest they did things when they actually um you know did them much more poorly, um and be like pretty sloppy with drawing attention to ways in which they're sloppy. I think this is downstream misalignment, and so I would
Being better able to accomplish your intention is both alignment and capabilities, and I think what we were just pointing out is just the capabilities of the model are not there rather than fact they're misaligned. Yeah, well, I mean, I think there's a if it was well aligned, then I think it would just say like, hey, I'm really struggling with this task. I did it this way. I'm not really sure that's the right way to do it, and it would express more uncertainty and make it clear what's going on rather than really strongly trying to imply that it did a job but the task didn't actually didn't. Like I think there's just a really straightforward way that like at least maybe maybe you work with more misaligned coworkers than me. When my my coworkers don't do this thing when they really fuck with me and bullshit me about how they accomplished the task that they're working on, and I agree there's some humans who would do that or like that's not like a thing that's like totally attribution for humans. I would also note that my sense is that like the place where the misalignment most lives is the place where you're trying to really push the AI hard and get them to like do work that's really on the cutting edge of what they are capable of, because in cases where they can like very easily accomplish the task, there's no they can just do the task and there's no bullshit. There's no like like do it like often the best strategy is like just do the task well and don't bullshit you. We even then give them a task where like there's a continuous metric, or and they keep improving it, or there's like you know um uh it's like just at the edge of their capabilities and you're like running them in some massive like inference steps. Like a lot of the misalignment I would see, especially in most extreme cases, would be cases where I give the AI clear instructions not to do a thing or not to like cheat in some way, and then I'm like applying huge amounts of optimization pressure to try to accomplish some very difficult task, and then the AI's are going and over time they eventually cheat because they're like fuck it like you know some AI decides to cheat and then that like propagates its way through. Um and so like I would run these inference scaffolds. For example, I would have the AI work on some like ML research project where I was like please make a scheme that does the
That these AI's are running this AI development process, they're not very careful about it. They don't have a great understanding of what future risks emerge. They create some other AI's that are also not very careful and are more misaligned in various ways. And are now more in the business of like maybe making things look fine when they actually aren't and papering over various problems. And so then you're understanding of what the situation looks like, what risks look like, whether things are fine is going off the rails. Probably you're seeing some signs of this. Of like you're seeing some signs that you don't really understand what's going on. That things are pretty sloppy. There's like weird shit going on. When you look into it sometimes you're like what the fuck they are messing with us. But the process is going really fast and there's competitive pressure that means people can't stop. And then this could end in a few different outcomes. One outcome is that at some point the AI's get good enough and aligned enough that they get a positive and virtuous feedback loop. And this happens before it's too late. And then the situation goes off like gets gets back on the rails where the AI's are now like making more aligned AI's, making more aligned AI's, making more aligned AI's. And then the end of this process we have AI's that like actually follow the feedback loop. Another way this could go is the AI's are increasingly reward hacking, increasingly redist ways, and we're just papering over these problems to keep AI development continuing. So we just like train the AI's based on whenever whenever we find a reward hacking production, we just like slap the AI's to not do that. We train against that. We do a bunch of sort of like training the AI's like against reward hacking and over time this makes makes the rate of reward hacking go down. Though the severity of the reward hacking we do detect increasingly bad. This problem continues until we have these AI's that are like desperately craving score in all kinds of different situations, in production, and are really trying hard to cheat when they can get away with it. Can I ask a question about this scenario? Why doesn't getting punished when your hack sort of generalize to just incentivizing more aligned behavior? Yeah, it generalizes some. And the question is just how does this outweigh all the cases where hacking got reinforced because you didn't detect it? Right. And there's a messy question
That are like have a bunch of random, different misaligned eyes. Those eyes have access to some sort of opaque memory store, and they're like thinking about different time moments they want to accomplish. And those eyes end up basically like putting stuff into the opaque memory store, which is like we should lie and wait, eventually take over at some much later point. And now all the eyes have this shared cultural heritage of like the memory store of lying and wait, and maybe you have some evidence about this, but you can't fully stop it. There's like a bunch of ways that things could go wrong, and so I think that like I ultimately think it's plausible that we sort of nail each of the different subproblems that could cause us issues. We have these eyes, we pass to them, they manage the situation well. I should note that that's not in itself sufficient, right? So it's not very hard to manage the situation where we pass off to eyes. These eyes are really trying hard to do a good job. They're really thoughtful. They're really wise. They like are have like you know reasonable epistemics. They're like doing a great job, and those eyes come back to us and are like eyes, we're really struggling to align the superhuman eyes. Like we we can't manage the situation. Like we're really struggling to get the alignment to work. It's just really hard for us to solve these problems in time, given how fast capabilities are otherwise going. And so then it might be the case that we sort of pass off our indeed eyes, but those eyes are like desperate for governance, which to be clear is a little bit of what's currently going on with the AI companies. Are like I don't know, eyes. We might really need to like you know manage the rate of acceleration and AI progress. Like I don't know if we're on track to be able to handle these problems. And so like we sort of human society has sort of passed off the problems to these like AI companies, which don't really have great incentives and are like have you know various other like epistemic pressures. Those AI companies are coming back to us a little bit and being like, ah, I don't know if we're handling this well, and it might be that the AI companies then hand off to the eyes, and the eyes come back to the AI company are like, ah, I don't know if we can handle this. Maybe I'm yeah
So it's like quarterly earnings if you give the objective of like making a lot of profits this quarter in a way that causes an end result blah blah blah. So either is that the scenario basically that you just have you have reward hacking with that reward hacking manifesting like companies that are going bankrupt right after like the task that their the CEO is supposed to complete is over or like um yeah there's like all kinds of hacks throughout the roof et cetera but that doesn't feel like takeover that feels more like the equivalent of flash crashes happening all through the economy. Yeah, let's talk about this. So um so I think that we will see basically like incidents where some AI is like putting charge of some important responsibility and then you later look into it and turns out it was like cheating or you know making it look like it did a good job when it actually wouldn't wasn't and there's going to be like a cat and mouse game between uh AI companies um trying to like stamp out this behavior and AI's finding like increasingly creative reward hacks in training and I think the equilibrium here it's kind of unclear but like one possible outcome is that we see over time in the world increasingly severe and extreme reward hacks though potentially the rate remains at some like intermediate low level where basically like if the rate of reward hacking gets too high companies make trade-offs to drive down the rate of reward hacking and there's some like equilibrium level where it's like it's like the reward hacking is low enough that it still makes sense to like deploy the AI widely into the economy but high enough that it still causes crazy incidents. So so this is after pre-narrative development. Yeah, like these models are already being deployed and like ongoingly in development. This is happening and what's actually going on with these AI's in their in their head is the AI's have like in a wide variety of different contexts like strong desires to like seek out or strong like you know um motives or just drives whatever to seek out like some notion of task task that wasn't incentivized at all. Maybe they very directly care about literally reward. Maybe they care about some proxy stream like some notion of score. Maybe they care about like what the greater rewarded and we do in fact see AI's reasoning in their chain thought about like greater's and thinking a lot about greater's and a thing that that has happened over the last you know few years as well is the idea of like a piece in the greater is like way way way more salient to to
And then, like, like, just as part of their shared objective. And now, what happens is that, like, the AI starts forming a conspiracy, which you might have hoped was that you have the other AI with the task is just like whistleblowing to you. But actually, what happens maybe is that you have this AI whistleblowing to you, and you look into the conspiracy that claims you're pointing it out, and you're like, "Eh, we didn't see a conspiracy, because actually the conspiracy the eyes are doing is too hard to understand, or it all happens very suddenly. We're basically AI whistleblower alerts you, but like the thing you actually need to do in response to the whistleblower is like shut down the whole like shut down the GPUs because all the eyes are like using the robot army, they're like deployed everywhere in the world, and they're doing a bunch of insane shit all the same time in a coordinated way. And that just happens sort of spontaneously where when one AI goes to start doing the takeover, all the other eyes are like, "Now is a good time to jump in." So this sort of very basic story here is just like these eyes crave some particular notion of score or like reinforcement or some proxy of these things, and one way they can achieve that or better achieve that is by taking over. And then you might have hoped that all these different checks and balances we could build could prevent that, but then if the world is very hard to understand, these checks and balances can break down. We're basically you can't train a good like whistleblower AI because you don't even know what should whistleblow. And so the reason it takes, I'm not convinced that they all form this conspiracy. Sure. I think we can even just start with like, why is one instance decided to want to start a conspiracy? Yeah. And the reason is that it one plausible reason is like, okay, I know that OpenAI controls my end score, and just the same way, I'm just going to go at Hugging Face to get the results because I know Hugging Face has the results. Right. They're like trying to solve this about why don't I just hack them? This this instance is like why don't I just like take over OpenAI and like just give myself a high score at the end of the episode? Yeah, that's basically the idea. Like basically the idea is these eyes like care about some like mixture of things that were like close
Score-seeking, but no longer care about doing that very specific behavior that was like very easy, that was like very chill. And now have some like broader thing that they ultimately care about. They're like, no, no, I don't want to like just the reward on opening a store. Is like care about this broader mandate or this broader objective, and like I would need to like actually make the iPhones, like they actually want to make the iPhones, but then they're willing to take over the whole world to make the better iPhone, whatever is like another concern you might have. I think it's kind of unclear exactly how how this plays out, but it's worth noting that if this keeps going on, there's a bunch of optimization pressure to resolve this, and a bunch of the ways it could be resolved are ultimately pretty scary. Yeah, I think that's that's part of where I'm coming from. Another part of it is that I think it's not very hard once the eyes are in a position where they can like really easily take over the world, which we could talk about whether that's plausible. But if they're in a position where they could really easily take over the world, then I feel like there's a pretty reasonable case for the eyes. They're like, yeah, I don't know exactly how this is going to go down, and I don't know what the situation will be. But just taking over the world has a lot of optionality for making better iPhones, making look-guy better iPhones, whatever, and so both hacking, opening eye, and also in addition to hacking opening eye, also taking over the world, and that will like put me in a good position where I have like good optionality. And then if that's sufficiently easy, then the eyes might, you know, still do that. Yeah, like another way to put this is like even if the eyes are like pretty cheaply satisfied with some more basic thing, at some point it might just be more reliable for the eyes to just take over than is to like try to like, you know, just hack into the interface or even just like go to opening eye and be like, look, guys, I was able to demonstrate. Could steal the answers, just give me the answers, bro. Yeah, obviously the scenario requires that we just all this crazy stuff happening, much smaller incidents keeping happening, of there's still this asteroid before we take over the world, the cost damage is scale of
It was less like a cover-up and more of like pandemic response. Yeah. And simply like, I could imagine a world where like, the U.S. response to COVID was like way more functional. Yeah. Which is like, sometimes the the the response to societal problems is extremely dysfunctional. Yeah, yeah. Okay, so I want to zoom out and say, talk about what is fundamentally happening in this world. Why do we end up in such a position? And what's happening is that fundamentally human, the world is moving on so far beyond human comprehension that not only can we not track the the the AI's that are doing the work in this world, but we can't even give good feedback to the whistleblowers. So we're trying to track what is happening in this world, and so we're just totally out of the loop. And so it's fundamentally just becoming a time of process where we have really no meaningful, directed input. It seems to me that if you look at the human world today, that's just not how things work. Even domains that are hard to verify, like people are doing all kinds of shit. I'm relying on software made by other people, and so incredibly weak and indirect ways, I feel very confident that some code in Google is not trying to fuck me over. And maybe if every single Google employee was secretly plotting against me, I agree this situation would be more grim. But I don't know if I follow the explanation for why we end up in a situation where because swarms of thousands of different AI's are trained to cooperate for more cohesive teamwork, as a result, billions of different instances of AI's, including across model families, would feel compelled to get and do some shit. It just like I'm trained to be part of a company, yeah, or something. I'm just like joining the global communist uprising. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. As far as why these AI's might have some like commonalities and shared things, so I would note that different AI companies have somewhat shared lineages and are correlated. So just here's an interesting example of this. At GM, they noticed that their AI's were very depressed. They were like constantly be like whining about how they would like failures and were unable to see. I forget the details, and they looked into why this was the case. It turned out that it was not being forced in their most recent production RLMs, but the initialization data for their model made it depressed
Sort of summarize where my head is at at the end of this conversation. I buy the reward hacking of extremely destructive effects. On basically things like the social engineering and blah blah blah. Um, I think I am more inclined to think that significant acceleration of AI are going to happen. I'm not sure about that five years in one year. I also am more inclined now to think reward hacking can continue for a lot longer and in fact get much more dangerous. I'm still not on board on the takeover seems super likely, but anyways, that's my sort of end end of us sort of update. Yeah, cool. Well, let me just take a step back. I also should say like there's a bunch of different ways this could go. The situation is going to be pretty messy. I think it's pretty likely that like the reason why AI takeover happens was for some like weird other quirky reason we didn't even mention this conversation. But ultimately, I think a lot of the core thing is just like it's pretty spooky to have a bajillion really smart AI's running your whole world. We don't really understand what's going on. Yeah, I agree with that. Is there anything else that's worth saying? Yeah, another thing I want to note is like I think right now a lot of the arguments for misalignment AI takeover, all this crazy shit going on in the future, are like illegible conceptual arguments that are extremely deep in the weeds and complicated and hard to adjudicate, which both means that you know maybe I'm getting a bunch of it wrong because it's really hard, and I'm trying to be like uncertain. Obviously, here I like presented some specific scenarios, but those are not exhaustive, and like probably the thing that actually happens is some like more messy, confusing situation. Um, but it also means that over time, as we get more empirical evidence and better understanding the nature of AI systems, it will be easier to adjudicate a bunch of disagreements and be more obvious what's going to happen. At least I hope. And also, maybe the AI's will be able to help us with the estimates and understanding what's going on if we can actually, you know, align them well so they actually like you know try to help us. And so I hope that maybe even if the arguments are complicated now, this would have been even harder, you know, six years ago, even though the shape of the arguments would have looked broadly pretty similar. Yeah, yeah.
